…About nine weeks ago…I announced that I was running for President and I’ve traveled the country extensively. 
And almost everywhere I go including today I will see something that reminds me of my parents. 
Today, it’s easy. I’m in a hotel banquet room which is what my father did for many years as a bartender. 
And I always open my speeches with that because it’s a reminder to me and hopefully to our audience that so much of what I’ve been able to do in this life &#8211; the opportunities that I’ve had &#8211; have been directly a result of the experience that they felt in this country. 
So both of my parents were born to poor families on the island of Cuba. They were born to societies, like most of the societies in the world, where your future largely depends on what your parents did before you. 
And so in 1956, my parents left their homeland and came here to the United States of America. 
Life in this country was not easy for them at first. But in time, they found good jobs. 
My father became a bartender, primarily working banquets like this. My mother was a cashier, a stock clerk at K-Mart, a maid at a hotel like this. 
And in time they earned enough money to do things like buy a home and raise a family and retire with security. 
And most important of all for them, they were able to leave all four of their children better off than themselves. 
I’m often reminded by the way that I don’t come from privilege, and if by privilege people mean money or fame, they’re right. 
But I know this. That while my parents never made enough money to save for me to go to college &#8211; that’s why I had over $100,000 in student loan debt which I was able to pay off recently with the proceeds of my book “An American Son” which is now available on paperback. [Laughter] 
And I didn’t inherit any real estate. I didn’t inherit any money. Even now, by the way, our mortgages are still a larger part of our budget than we wish it were. 
And yet, I still consider myself to be a child of incredible privilege because I was raised in a stable home by two married parents who loved each other and who loved us and who taught us and instilled in us the values we would need to succeed. 
And most important of all, they taught me that there was no dream too big and there was no goal out of reach even for the son of a bartender and a maid because I was an American. 
And these opportunities &#8211; my life’s journey, my parents’ life journeys and the opportunities that I’ve had &#8211; they are the direct result of one thing and that is the fact that my parents came here and I grew up during the American century. 
The 20th century was a century where America led the world against evil, a century driven by an American economy that produced the best companies, the best products, the best jobs in the entire world, and a century in which America was the one place on Earth where anyone willing to work hard could achieve the universal dream of a better life. 
But the world is different now. 
The early years of this new century have brought about the most significant period of change since the industrial revolution. 
For much of the 20th century, America had limited international competition. But now, we are engaged in a global competition for the best companies, the best talent, the best ideas, and the best jobs. 
For much of the 20th century, we had plenty of good-paying jobs even for people like my parents with a limited education. 
But now many of these jobs either no longer pay enough or they’ve been replaced by a machine. 
For much of the 20th century, the world was defined first by two world wars and then a cold one. But now from autocratic governments in China, Russia, and Iran to radical jihadists, we don’t face one &#8211; we face multiple threats to our prosperity and to our security. 
We now live in a time unlike any moment before it with problems and opportunities unique to this moment. 
Now, there are those seeking the presidency based solely on what they’ve achieved in the past. But I’m running for President because what we need now are leaders and solutions that are grounded in the future in this new era that we now have. 
So today, while the cost of living keeps climbing, two-thirds &#8211; two out of three Americans made less money today than they did in the year 2002. 
Our outdated policies from yesterday are not going to fix this. 
But if I’m honored with the opportunity to be President, we will put in place new ideas that will help our people increase their paycheck and reduce their bills. 
First, we’re going to have new tax policies &#8211; tax policies that say that the more your employer pays you, the less they’ll owe in taxes to the IRS. 
We will help working families by helping them to keep more of what they earn so that middle class families will have the funds necessary to raise strong families in the 20th century.
And we will lead the world in the production of energy so that the costs of utilities and of gassing up your car will stabilize and in time come down and no longer keep going up for our working families. 
Today because of automation in technology, the good-paying jobs require more training and more skills and more education than they ever have before. 
But because millions of Americans lack these skills, they find themselves out of work or stuck in low-paying jobs. 
But if I’m blessed with the opportunity to be President, we will change this. We will put in place new policies that will give our people, help our people acquire the skills that they need for the better paying jobs of this new century. 
For starters, instead of pushing everyone to go to a traditional four-year college, we will transform higher education so that it’s accessible and affordable to all of our people. 
We’ll focus on training more people, more young people to be in a skilled trade. We still need more welders, more plumbers, more electricians, more people to work the construction trades. 
And for the life of me, I do not understand why we have stigmatized these good jobs that pay more than the job of a psychology major. 
We need to modernize higher education so that people who have to work full-time and raise a family can still go back to school. 
If you’re single mother raising two kids on your own working for $10 an hour, you can’t just drop everything and enroll in four years of college somewhere. 
We need to have flexible programs that allow you to learn online, on nights, and on weekends. So that a receptionist making $9 an hour can become a paralegal making $60,000 a year. So a home health aide making $10 an hour can become a dental hygienist making $65,000 a year. 
These are the new professions that will allow people to change their lives and the future of their children. 
And by the way, traditional college will still be available but I believe that before you take out a student loan, you should be told how much people made when they graduated from that school with that degree. So that you can decide if you want to major in Roman philosophy because the market for Roman philosophers has been very tight for the last 1,500 years. 
Today because of high taxes and out of control regulations, for the first time in 35 years, we have more businesses dying than we have starting in America. And yesterday’s ideas are making this worse, not better. 
But if I am blessed with the opportunity to be President, we will pursue policies that make America the best place in the world to start and operate a business, especially a new one. 
We will repeal Dodd-Frank, which is killing the small banks that loan money to small businesses. 
We will lower the tax rate on small businesses so they can compete with the big businesses. 
And we will put a cap on regulations which are crowding out innovations and making us uncompetitive in the global economy. 
Regulations are particularly problematic for a small business who cannot hire an army of lobbyists and lawyers to help navigate big government. 
And last but not least, we will repeal and replace Obamacare before it repeals and replaces more small businesses. 
Today, we are on pace to leave the next generation with a staggering amount of debt. Yesterday’s ideas created this problem and yesterday’s ideas make this problem even worse in the years to come. 
But if I am blessed with the opportunity to be President, we will make it our priority to fix this through the only way that will work &#8211; a combination of economic growth and spending reforms. 
We will balance our budget and we will save Social Security and Medicare so those programs exist for future generations as well. 
Today, on the global stage, America’s influence has declined. The world has gotten more dangerous and our people and our interests are less secure. 
And yesterday’s ideas by the way that America can no longer afford to be the most powerful country on the planet is what has brought us to this point. 
But if I am blessed with the opportunity to be President, you can rest assured of one thing. We will be trusted by our allies, feared by our enemies, and respected by all. 
For starters, we will reverse these dangerous cuts to our military at a time when China and Russia and everyone else is expanding their capabilities. 
We won’t just talk tactics. We will actually work with our allies to come up with a strategy to deal with the threats posed by China in Asia and Russia in Europe and Iran in the Middle East. 
We will have a real strategy not just the big talk tactics on how to confront ISIS and radical jihadists everywhere. 
We will rally the world to the cause of persecuted Christians throughout the world. 
And one more thing, one more thing we cannot say today. If I am blessed with the opportunity to be the President of the United States, our relationship with Israel will be clear and unequivocal for the world to see. 
And here’s what it will be &#8211; here’s what the world will know that if I am President this country will do whatever it takes to help the people of Israel survive and prosper as a Jewish state. 
And last but not least today, we see an erosion in our culture and in our values. 
Yesterday’s ideas that somehow the government could replace the family has failed miserably as we knew it would. 
If I am blessed with the opportunity to be President, we will have someone in the White House who understands that you cannot have a strong country without strong people, you cannot have strong people without strong families, and you cannot have strong families with a government that strong-arms parents and our faith. 
If I am blessed with that opportunity, we will have a President that understands and believes that the government is not meant to replace moms and dads; it is meant to empower them. And it is not meant to marginalize churches and synagogues; it is meant to protect them and their constitutional rights. 
And we will have policies that reflect our values. 
We will remove marriage penalties in our tax codes and in our safety net programs. 
We will redesign anti-poverty systems so that they cure poverty through education, responsibility and work.
And if I’m President of the United States, we will appoint judges and we will have an Attorney General who will protect our Second Amendment right and defend the right of every American to live out their faith at home, at work, or in their business. 
And so you see, despite all of these challenges, a strong America with strong values, good jobs, and a healthy economy, that is the future that we can build together. 
I’m honored to be gathered here today at the Road to Majority Conference. I really like that name, especially the road part because it reminds us that every single candidate, every party, every country is on a road &#8211; 
I’ll continue my speech in a second…
…If you do that in another country, your family’s house could be raided, your businesses can be closed. 
In America, people have the right to interrupt speeches. They have a right to be rude. They have a right to be wrong. 
We live in a free society. I thank God everyday for it. 
Now, let me just close by talking about the road because the fundamental question before us is where does the road that we’re on now lead to? 
There are those who run based on the past, on what they said or what they did in the decade or in the century that we leave behind. 
But this election will not be about the past. This election is and must be about the future. 
An election that is not just about what laws we’re going to pass. At its core, the fundamental question of this election is going to be what kind of country will we be in this new century. 
And today because of our outdated leaders, America’s wheels are spinning. 
And while Hillary Clinton, I will confess, has a plan to get us moving again, it’s a plan that unfortunately will get us moving in reverse. 
But no one has ever won a race and no one has ever won the future by running backwards. 
We must change the decisions that we are making by replacing the people who are making it. 
Yet we know that making a transition has never been easy. It always meets with resistance. And this time it will be no different. 
Now, when I announced, some suggested that instead of running for President, I needed to wait my turn. [Laughter]
Well, I’ve heard that before. They said the same thing in 2009 when I ran for the Senate against the then-sitting Republican governor who now happens to be a Democrat. [Laughter]
Well, don’t laugh. He was an independent in between. 
But he was beating me in the polls by 60 points. He was outraising me by 10 to 1. 
The entire &#8211; and I mean the entire &#8211; Republican establishment in Washington and in Florida was aligned with him. 
The truth is in the early days of that race, the only people that thought I can win all lived in my house. Four of them were under the age of 10. 
But then as I do now, I chose to run. 
I chose to run because for America the future is now, and if we keep promoting the same leaders, we will be left behind and we will lose the race for the 21st century. 
Then, there are those who say, “We like Marco but we support someone else because now is not his time. But he has a great future.” 
Well, that’s good news. That’s good news because this election is in the future. [Laughter]
But more importantly, this election is about the future. 
And now the New York Times recently said I was not rich enough to be President. [Laughter]
Well, Jeanette and I have actually been very blessed. It’s true I didn’t start my career with the advantage of family connections. I don’t have a foundation that raises $2 billion, some of it from foreign entities. 
But despite all that, we’ve been able to invest in our children, not just by saving for them to go to college one day but by being able to send them to receive a Christian education. 
We were able to bought a speed boat cleverly disguised as a family fishing boat. 
And on the fifth of every month, Jeanette and I send a check to pay for the mortgage on our family home. 
But the biggest debt that I have isn’t to a bank. The biggest debt that I have is to America. 
Because this isn’t just a country I was born in. This is the nation that literally changed the history of my family. 
When my father was nine-years-old, his mother passed away and he had to leave school and go to work, and he would work for the rest of his life and he never went back to school. 
When he was young, he had big dreams for himself but they were impossible through no fault of his own. And so the purpose of his life became to give his children the chance to do all the things he never could. 
He worked tirelessly for many years, well into his 70s, as a banquet bartender. He worked on nights, on weekends, on holidays. 
He was grateful for the work he had but that’s not the job he wanted for us. 
My father stood behind a small portable bar in the back of a room just like this so one day I would have the opportunity to stand behind a microphone in front of a room like this. 
And the journey from behind that bar and behind this microphone is the essence of the American dream.
And it reminds us that this is not just my story. This is our story. 
For as Americans, every single one of us is just a generation or two removed from someone who made our future the purpose of their lives. 
And it also reminds us that what makes America special is not that we have rich people. Every country has rich people. And we’re glad that there are people in America that have been economically successful and we celebrate it. 
But what makes us special is that here people who will never be rich and will never be famous through hard work, sacrifice, and perseverance are able to achieve peace. 
By the way, whether this country remains a special country or not will depend on whether that journey that my parents made and you and your parents and your grandparents made whether that journey is still possible for the men and women who are trying to make it. 
Whether America will remain special or not will be determined by whether the people who clean the rooms in this hotel and pick up after us after we finish here will be able to for their children what our parents did for us. 
Today, in the early years of this new century, the challenge that we face to that dream is that we live in a time of rapid change. Changes that present us with both great challenges but also great opportunities. 
We have before us the opportunity to build an America that’s even stronger, free-er and more prosperous than ever. 
We have the opportunity to be a people with both the right skills and also the right values. 
And we have the opportunity to see to it that the American dream doesn’t just survive but that it reaches more people and changes more lives than ever before. 
We have been blessed with the unique opportunity to live at this time in history and I hope we embrace it, not just in this election but in every election, not just today but everyday, not just this year but every year. 
And so that’s why I’m running for President. That’s why I hope that no matter who the nominee may be and obviously every night I say a small prayer that it is me but no matter who it may be that’s why I ask you to join us to choose the right road into our future, the road not to the past but the road into the 21st century so that our generation can one day say of ourselves what is written in second Timothy: “I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith.” 
And we will know that because we did. We left for our children a new American century. 
Thank you very much for letting me speak to you. Thank you. 
###
