[Question on electability and comparison to Margaret Thatcher]
I started as a secretary and became ultimately the chief executive of the largest technology company in the world &#8211; almost $90 billion in over 150 countries.
I know personally how extraordinary and unique this nation is.
I think to be commander-in-chief in the 21st century requires someone who understands how the economy works, someone who understands how the world works and who’s in it &#8211; I know more world leaders on the stage today than anyone running with the possible exception of Hillary Clinton &#8211; understands bureaucracies, how to cut them down to size and hold them accountable, and understands technology, which is a tool but it’s also a weapon that’s being used against us.
Most importantly, I think I understand leadership, which sometimes requires a tough call in a tough time. But mostly, the highest calling of leadership is to challenge the status quo and unlock the potential of others. We need a leader who will lead the resurgence of this great nation and unlock its potential once again.
[Question on Donald Trump]
Well, I don’t know. I didn’t get a phone call from Bill Clinton before I jumped in the race. Any of you get a phone call from Bill Clinton? I didn’t.
Maybe it’s ‘cause I hadn’t given money to the foundation or donated to his wife’s Senate campaign.
Here’s the thing that I would ask Donald Trump in all seriousness. He is the party’s frontrunner right now and good for him. I think he’s tapped into an anger that people feel. They’re sick of politics as usual.
You know, whatever your issue, your cause, the festering problem you hope would be resolved, the political class has failed you. That’s just a fact and that’s what Donald Trump taps into.
I would also just say this: Since he has changed his mind on amnesty, on health care and on abortion, I would just ask what are the principles by which he will govern.
&#8230;
[Question on cyber encryptions helping homegrown terrorists]
Well, let me say first that it is disturbing that every time one of these homegrown terrorist attack occurs &#8211; and as your question points out, they are occurring with far too great frequency &#8211; it turns out we had warning signals, it turns out we knew something was wrong, it turns out some dot wasn’t connected.
And so the first thing we have to do is make sure that everyone and every responsible agency is attuned to all of these possibilities and symptoms.
We even had warnings about the Boston Marathon bombers and yet the dots weren’t connected.
So we need to get on a different mindset.
Secondly, I certainly support that we need to tear down cyber walls, not on a mass basis but on a targeted basis.
But let me just say that we also need to tear down the cyber walls that China is erecting, that Russia is erecting. We need to be very well aware of the fact that China and Russia are using technology to attack us just as ISIS is using technology to recruit those who would murder American citizens.
I do not believe that we need to wholesale destroy every American citizen’s privacy in order to go after those we know are suspect or are already a problem.
But yes, there is more collaboration required between private sector companies and the public sector.
And specifically we know that we could have detected and repelled some of these cyber attacks if that collaboration had been permitted.
A law has been languishing sadly on Capitol Hill and it has not been passed and it would help.
[Question on whether she would call on Apple and Google to cooperate in national security investigations]
I absolutely would call on them to collaborate and cooperate, and yes.
&#8230;
[Question on the Iran nuclear deal]
Yep, sometimes it is a complicated situation but some things are black and white.
On day one in the oval office, I would make two phone calls.
The first one would be to my good friend, Bibi Netanyahu, to reassure him we will stand with the state of Israel.
The second would be to the Supreme Leader of Iran. He might not take my phone call but he would get the message and the message is this: Until you open every nuclear and every military facility to full, open, anytime, anywhere for real inspections, we are going to make it as difficult as possible for you to move money around the global financial system.
I hope Congress says no to this deal but realistically, even if they do, the money of flowing.
China and Russia have never been on our side of the table. The Europeans have moved on. We have to stop the money flow.
And by the way, as important as those two phone calls are, they are also very important because they say this: America is back in the leadership business.
And when America does not lead, the world is a dangerous and a tragic place. This is a bad deal.
Obama broke every rule of negotiation. Yes, our allies are not perfect but Iran is at the heart of most of the evil that is going on in the Middle East through their proxies.
&#8230;Let me tell you what I would do immediately. Day two in the oval office, I would hold a Camp David summit with our Arab allies, not to talk them into this lousy deal with Iran but to say to them &#8220;What is it that you need to defeat ISIL?&#8221;
You know, Obama has presented the American people with a false choice. Every time, it&#8217;s what I&#8217;ve done or not done or it&#8217;s war. It is a false choice.
King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I&#8217;ve known for a long time, has been asking for bombs and materials. We have not provided them. He has gone to China.
The Kurds have been asking us to arm them for three years; we have not done so.
The Egyptians have asked us to share intelligence; we&#8217;re not doing it.
We have Arab allies. They are not perfect. I know every one. But they need to see leadership, support, and resolve from the United States of America, and we can help them defeat ISIS.
&#8230;
[Question on the first executive order]
I agree with my colleagues. We need to begin by undoing &#8211; I would begin by undoing a whole set of things that President Obama has done, whether it&#8217;s illegal amnesty or this latest round of EPA regulations. 
But let me go back to something that&#8217;s very important. We have been debating right here the core difference between conservatism and progressivism. 
Conservative &#8211; I am a conservative because I believe no one of us is any better than any one of us. Every one of us is gifted by God, whether it is those poor babies being picked over or it&#8217;s someone whose life is tangled up in a web of dependence. 
Progressives don&#8217;t believe that. They believe some are smarter than others, some are better than others. So some are going to need to take care of others. 
That is the fight that we have to have and we have to undo a whole set of things that President Obama has done that get at the heart of his disrespect and disregard for too many Americans. 
&#8230;
[Question on inspiring the nation]
This is a great nation. It is a unique nation in all of human history and on the face of the planet because our founders believed that everyone has a right to fulfill their potential and that that right &#8211; they called it life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness &#8211; comes from God and cannot be taken away by government. 
We have arrived at a point in our nation’s history where the potential of this nation and too many Americans are being crushed by the weight, the power, the cost, the complexity, the ineptitude, the corruption of the federal government. 
And only someone who will challenge the status quo of Washington, D.C. can lead the resurgence of this great nation. I will do that. 
[Two words to describe Hillary Clinton]:
Not trustworthy. No accomplishment. 
&#8230;
