Well, recognize that President George W. Bush was a great friend of ours and we’ve spent many wonderful days at the White House. 
I haven’t been there in the last seven years. I probably have to have a food tester. 
But at any rate, I didn’t suggest that nothing be done. What I suggested to President Bush is to be Kennedy-esque in the sense that when the Russians got ahead of us in the space race, what we did is use the bully pulpit to galvanize everybody &#8211; business, industry, academia behind a national goal to put a man on the moon and bring him back safely. 
I said “You can do the same kind of thing. Declare that within 5 to 10 years we will become petroleum independent.” The moderate Arab states would have been so concerned about that that, they would have turned over Osama bin Laden and anybody else you wanted on a silver platter within two weeks. 
There is smart ways to do things and there are muscular ways to do things and sometimes you have to look at both of those to come up with the right solution. 
Chris Christie: 
I stood in that region with my family and every time a plane went overhead in the weeks after that, people’s heads jerked to the sky because they thought it was happening again. 
You do not need to go through subtle diplomacy at that point. That can be handled later on. 
What you need is a strong American leader who will take the steps that are necessary to protect our nation. 
That’s what I would do as Commander-in-Chief in this circumstance and that’s what President George W. Bush did in 2001. 
Ben Carson: 
There is a time when you can use your intellect to come up with other ways to do things and I think that’s what we have to start thinking about. 
There is no question that a lot of these problems that we have been talking about in terms of the international situation is because we are weak, it’s because our navy is so small, it’s because our air force is incapable of doing the same things that it did a few years ago, it’s because our marine corps is not ready to be deployed. 
There are a lot of problems that are going on and we need to solve those problems. We need to build up our military…
