…Thank you. I’m not sure I’m Captain America but I’m striving to be president of the United States.
I appreciate you all coming out. It is great to be here in Tampa with so many friends.
Today, we begin a four-day trip across Florida, South Carolina, and New Hampshire to tell the Florida story &#8211; the story of a big diverse state shaped by conservative result-oriented leadership.
Reforming government. Disrupting the status quo. Challenging the special interests. Restoring opportunity. Refusing to compromise in the defense of freedom. Lifting people up not tearing them down. Standing for everyone.
Our story is about action, doing not just talking. Listening &#8211; listening &#8211; not just lecturing.
That is my story and I’m so grateful and honored to have led this great state as your governor. I cannot tell you how much it warms my heart.
Last year, I decided that I wanted to share my story with people across the country so I wrote a book. Well, really, I didn’t write it, not in the traditional sense. I emailed it.
They used to call me the e-governor. For eight years, I gave out my email address. Jeb@Jeb.org. And I gave it to anybody who wanted to talk to me. And emailed they did.
People across the state told me their stories. Sometimes they asked questions. Sometimes they asked for help.
I’ll never forget one lady &#8211; an elderly woman &#8211; in South Florida sent me an email saying “Governor, I’ve got a raccoon in my attic. What are you going to do about it?”
So I called up the poor city manager from Delray Beach or one of these towns and I said, “You have an elderly person who’s got a raccoon in her attic. What are you going to do about it?” And by noon, that raccoon was out because we did have a servant’s heart in Tallahassee.
We got our team right on it each and every day when people had problems. And they always &#8211; Floridians always gave me their opinions. Man, they did not hold back.
So I listened and I did try to answer every email.
It wasn’t something that I could have predicted at the start of my time in office but this eight-year conversation with Florida shaped my governorship so in writing my book, I used my email exchanges to tell the Florida story, to tell about the work to turn one of America’s largest states into an economic engine where people could live, work, and raise their family in safety and security with the huge promise for the future and free from the heavy hand of government.
That’s what my book is about. And here’s my shameless plug. The book is called “Reply All”. It’s out today. You can get it on Amazon.com. It’s pretty cheap. I hope you enjoy it.
Going back and re-reading these emails reminded me of the challenges we tackled together and how much can be accomplished with strong, conservative leadership. That is why I’m running for the presidency of the United States of America.
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks in Tampa, Florida – Part 1
You see, America’s in a time of testing at home and abroad. People are frustrated. People are worried about what our future holds for our nation. And I share that sentiment with them.
Our economy has suffered its slowest recovery since the Great Depression.
One in 10 able-bodied Americans can’t find full-time work or who have given up altogether.
One in seven Americans lives in poverty. One in five children is on food stamps.
Barack Obama has given us $2 trillion of new taxes but still managed to grow the national debt by $8 trillion, placing the moral burden on working families and the next generation.
The world is in turmoil as America withdraws from its responsibilities.
ISIS has a caliphate the size of Indiana. In Syria and Iraq, they are indiscriminately killing moderate Muslims, Christians, western journalists, anyone who stands in the way of their fanatic ideology.
Red lines get crossed without consequence, unleashing a humanitarian crisis as four million Syrian refugees flee their native land.
Vladimir Putin is siding with the brutal Syrian dictator, sending weapons to Iran and continuing to defy the western world in Ukraine.
All the while the President has negotiated an agreement that gives legitimacy to Tehran and does nothing to curb Iran’s nuclear ambitions.
For the first time in the history of Israel, its greatest existential threat has been created by its greatest ally.
The 2016 elections arrives at the juncture of all our failures abroad and restlessness at home, and soon, Americans will once again enter a time for choosing &#8211; a chance to set a new course for the country.
As you may have heard last week I was in Colorado for the third Republican debate.
If you watched the debate, you probably came away thinking that the election’s about soundbites or fantasy football or which candidate can interrupt the loudest. I’m here to tell you it is not.
This election is not about a set of personalities.
It’s about a set of principles.
It’s about leadership.
It’s about the right vision to lead America through turbulent waters after two terms of a divider-in-chief who has sliced and diced the electorate by class, income, grievance, and creed.
So the choice we face is whether to summon the courage to give rise to a new era of possibility or indulge this new age of cynicism.
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks in Tampa, Florida – Part 1
For all his promise, perhaps President Obama’s greatest accomplishment is that of creating competing pessimism. 
Members of his own party are left explaining how 2% growth, massive debt, and increasing global isolation are really the best that we can do. 
They speak in delusional terms about containing ISIS, about trusting the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism, about how the presence of Russian soldiers on Syrian soil doesn’t underscore the President’s empty words and total inaction. 
It’s not working. And all President Obama has left is the politics of divide and conquer, signing lawless executive orders that ignore the Constitution and launching partisan attacks such as comparing his critics to Iranian hardliners. Wow. Amazing. 
Americans have had enough of our many President’s straw man arguments and of a front-running candidate who blames a vast right-wing conspiracy instead of taking personal responsibility and who declares roughly half the country as her enemy. 
If Secretary Clinton has her way, the next four years will be like the last eight &#8211; gridlock, grievance, division, demonization. 
This is the only way they know how to win. 
On the issue of immigration, they’ve written a script for Republicans filled with grievance and resentment. 
Frankly, the last thing they want is a Republican challenger who takes them out of their comfort zone of forced indignation and PC platitudes. 
But let me be clear. Let me be clear. I’m not stepping into the role of angry agitator that they’ve created for us because it’s not what’s in my heart and it is not true to the conservative cause. 
And in the end, that role is just a bit part in another story of another conservative loss and another liberal victory. That’s their plan, and I’m not going to go along with it. 
But I truly fear the president has already succeeded in setting the trap for our party, bringing a new pessimism on the right. 
Some people on the debate stage talked of a country that was once great but now is in dramatic decline. They say our best days are behind us. 
Look, let’s be clear &#8211; let’s be clear. I acknowledge the difficulties and challenges we face. But I reject that kind of thinking, not because I don’t understand it but because it is not true. 
There’s an important place in politics for righteous indignation but anger that leads to resentment without delivering results will take us down a path to perdition. 
In my heart, I believe America’s best days are not behind us but squarely in front of us if we elect the right leadership. 
And as your president, I will fight everyday with a reformer’s heart. I will lead and I will tear down the barriers that keep Americans from rising up and realizing their God-given potential. 
I will do so keenly aware of the problems that given rise to the deep frustration all of us share &#8211; frustration over a porous border, workers’ wages remaining stagnant, and ever-shrinking pie for families living paycheck to paycheck. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks in Tampa, Florida – Part 1
This won&#8217;t be solved with more talk. 
The answer isn’t sending someone from one side of the capitol city to the other. 
The solution won’t be found in someone who has never demonstrated the capacity to implement conservative ideas. 
And you can’t just tell Congress “You’re fired” and go to commercial break. 
You have bring people together to solve problems. The challenges we face as a nation are too great to roll the dice on another presidential experiment, to trust the rhetoric of reform over a record of reform. 
After seven years of incompetence, corruption, and gridlock in Washington, we need a president who can fix it. 
I can fix it. 
After seven years of historic cuts to our military, a foreign policy based on leading from behind, the emboldening of our enemies and the isolation of our allies, we need a president who fixes America’s standing abroad. I can fix it. 
After seven years of massive deficits, historic debt, and a president who vetoes defense spending because he wants more reckless spending, we need a president who fixes our budgetary mess. I can fix it. 
I know I can fix it because I’ve done it. 
In Florida, we showed how strong, hands-on leadership could make a difference in the lives of people. 
I gave out my email address because I wanted Floridians to know that their governor cared about them and wanted to help solve their problems. 
I remember emailing with an honor student named Kristie Edwards (sp) who couldn’t pass her FCAT to graduate because of her disability. We listened and changed the law so Kristie could get her high school diploma and go on to graduate from college. 
I remember emailing with single moms like Tina Calloway (sp) who needed help collecting child support from absent fathers. Their calls for assistance motivated us to increase child support collection by 90% during my time as governor. 
And I remember emailing with teachers like Eileen Miller (sp) who joined our cause of improving schools, even though their union pressured them to fight us every step along the way. And guess what? We took them on and we won. 
I went to Tallahassee as an agent of change. I turned the political culture of Tallahassee upside down. And I’m putting the Beltway on notice; I’ll turn Washington, D.C. upside down too. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks in Tampa, Florida – Part 1
We took on the education establishment to make Florida a national leader in parental choice and school accountability. 
We took on the public employee union to shrink the size of the state bureaucracy by 11%. 
We took on trial lawyers to rein in frivolous lawsuits to make our business climate more conducive to small business growth and we led the nation in small business creation. 
We took on big-spending politicians from both parties to balance eight budgets, cut taxes eight years in a row totaling $19 billion. 
And by the way, I vetoed 2,500 separate line items from the budget, saving the taxpayers $2 billion. 
My good friend and former Speaker of the House John Thrasher reacted to all this by calling me Veto Corleone. Apparently, that wasn’t meant as a term of endearment at the time. But I’ll tell you what, I’ll wear it as a badge of honor today because conservatives need to believe in limited government. 
Just because we’re in power doesn’t mean that we get our chance at the trough. 
A committed conservative is one that limits government’s power and spreads government power back to the people. That’s what we need to do in Washington D.C. 
The story of my governorship was one of using conservative principles each and everyday consistently and constantly to provide people with opportunity to improve their lives. 
I govern on the premise that there are no second class citizens, no second rate dreams. In America, every citizen is an asset, every life matters, and every American has the right to rise to their God-given potential. 
If you want a president who maintains the status quo, I’m not your guy. 
But if you want fundamental conservative reform, reform that can be found in the rhetoric &#8211; the record not the rhetoric, then I ask for your support. 
Our times are difficult but not nearly as difficult as what Lincoln faced when he took office or what FDR faced on Dec. 8, 1941. 
We have long been blessed with a benevolent presidency, leaders who turn both our highest hopes and worst fears into dramatic lasting change that left the world a better place, leaders who held the nation’s highest office with humility, who went on bended knee before God asking his help in carrying out orders that [affect] millions. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks in Tampa, Florida – Part 1
It was Lincoln who spoke at his second inauguration a few weeks before the end of the war soothing words of healing and hope, with malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right. Let us strive on to finish the work we’re in.
If Lincoln were alive today, imagine the foolishness he would have to suffer. Think about it. Advisors telling him to shave his beard. Cable pundits telling him to lose the top hat. Opposition researchers calling him a five-time loser before he was 50.
I’ve gotten a lot of advice lately myself. More than enough, thank you.
Some is stylistic &#8211; “take off the suit coat”, “ditch the glasses”, “get rid of the purple-striped tie”. I like the tie. I like this tie. It only costs $20.
Some advices are more strategic &#8211; “nail that zinger”, “be angrier”, “hide your inner wonk”.
But I’ve learned two important things from my time serving as your governor. One, I can’t be something I’m not. And two, getting things done isn’t about yelling into a camera or regurgitating soundbites free of substance.
The campaign trail is littered with candidates disguised as television critics, politicians echoing poll-tested pablum.
But leadership is something far different. It’s about telling people what they want to hear &#8211; not what they want to hear but what they must hear. It’s not about saying the right thing but doing the right thing.
It’s not about tearing people down but bringing people together.
I will do everything in my power to win this race but there are some things I’m not willing to do.
I will not compromise on my principles. I will not trade in an optimistic outlook to put on the cloak of an angry agitator. And I will not make anyone feel small so I can feel big.
Americans are looking for a president not a pundit, a leader not a protester.
For seven and a half years, we’ve been led by a cynic-in-chief. It’s time we elected a commander-in-chief.
A president who knows leadership involves summoning the will and creativity to solve tomorrow’s challenges and take advantage of the great opportunities that are at our doorstep.
I’m running this campaign on my own terms. And let me tell you something, when the dust clears and delegates are counted, we’re going to win this campaign.
I will be true to myself &#8211; optimistic and inclusive. I will win appealing to our better angels, not to our greatest fears. And I will win with a message that welcomes all and includes all because I will be a president who fights for all.
Join me in this journey. Fight with me as we work to fundamentally change the culture of Washington. Let us seek to redeem the promise of a fledging republic formed well over 200 years ago. A land full of endless promise and limitless possibility for all so blessed to be called Americans.
The future is in our hands. Let us seize it together with faith, hope, and trust in ourselves, in one another, in the God who made us and guides us.
Thank you all very much. God bless America. Let’s go win!
###
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks in Tampa, Florida – Part 1
