Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Martin O’Malley’s remarks on heroin at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
&#8230;I have a dear friend, played music with him for years…I remember when I came home with his baby girl and now she’s no longer with us because of addiction and overdose. 
My last time in New Hampshire I had to take a break shortly after landing and call home to comfort a friend whose mother died of an overdose. 
Drugs have taken far too many of our citizens. It’s a huge public health challenge.
In our own city, I had mentioned before we had become the most addicted city in America but together every single I expanded drug treatment funding in our city and then I expanded it in our state and we were saving lives every single year doing the things that work, intervening earlier, understanding the continuum of care that’s required until we got hit like every other state in the United States, especially in New Hampshire and the northeast, with this opioid addiction &#8211; the over-prescribing. I agree we need better…need to rein in the over-prescribing. 
But I have put forward in my plan a $12 billion federal investment. We have to invest in the local partnerships.
And the best place to intervene &#8211; the best indicator of when a person is actually on the verge of killing themselves because of an addiction is at the hospital. That very first time they show up with a near miss, we should be intervening there. That’s what I said to my own public health people, “What would we do if this were Ebola? How would we act?” 
So many more Americans have been killed by the combination of heroin and these highly addictive pain pills and yet we refuse to act. 
There are things that can be done. Go on to my website, my plan is there. It’s one of 15 strategic goals that I’ve set out to make our country a better place by cutting these sorts of deaths in half in the next five years. 
&#8230;
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
