Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Martin O’Malley’s closing statement at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015:
…I want to thank all of the people who have tuned in tonight. I want to thank the great people of New Hampshire where despite all of the cynicism or the big money and big banks taking over politics, here in New Hampshire the individual matters. 
And my wife, Katie, and I have four terrific kids, and like you, there’s probably nothing we wouldn’t do to give them a future that’s safer, that’s healthier, where they have more opportunity than our parents and grandparents gave to us. 
Tonight, what you listened to was a healthy exchange of ideas about how we do that &#8211; that which we have always proven a capacity to do better than any nation in the world to take actions that include more of our people more fully in the economic, social, and political life of our country. 
When you listen to the Republican debates the other night, you heard a lot of anger and you had a lot of fear. Well, they can have their anger and they can have their fear but anger and fear never built America. 
We built our country by adopting wage and labor policies including comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway of citizenship for all. 
We do it by investing in our country, by investing in infrastructure, by investing in the skills and the talents of our people with debt free college and we can do it again. 
And we also create a better future for our kids when we square our shoulders to the great challenges of our times, whether it’s the terror trying to undermine our values or Republican presidential candidates trying to get us to surrender our freedoms and our values in the face of this threat. 
The other big challenge we have is climate change &#8211; the greatest business opportunity to come to the United States of America in 100 years. We need to embrace this. I have put forward a plan that does this, that moves us to 100% clean electric grid by 2050. 
Join this campaign for the future. New leadership is what our country needs to move us out of these divided and polarized time. 
Thank you. 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
