My name is Martin O’Malley, former mayor of Baltimore, former governor of Maryland, a lifelong Democrat, and most importantly a husband and father. 
My wife, Katie, and I have four great kids &#8211; Grace and Tara and William and Jack. And like you, there is nothing we wouldn’t do to give them healthier and better lives. 
There are some things that I have learned to do better in life than others. 
And after 15 years of executive experience, I have learned how to be an effective leader. 
Whether it was raising the minimum wage, making our public schools the best in America, passing marriage equality, the DREAM Act, and comprehensive gun safety legislation, I have learned how to get things done because I am very clear about my principles. 
Thanks to President Obama, our country has come a long way since the Wall Street crash of 2008. Our country is doing better. We are creating jobs again. 
But we elected a president, not a magician, and there is urgent work that needs to be done right now for there is a deep injustice &#8211; an economic injustice &#8211; that threatens to tear our country apart, and it will not solve itself; injustice does not solve itself. 
What I’m talking about is this: Our middle class is shrinking. Our poorer families are becoming poorer. And 70% of us are earning the same or less than we were 12 years ago. 
We need new leadership and we need action &#8211; the sort of action that will actually make wages go up again for all American families. 
Our economy isn’t money; it’s people. It’s all of our people. And so we must invest in our country and the potential of our kids to make college a debt-free option for all families, instead of saddling our kids with a lifetime of crushing debt. 
And we must square our shoulders to the great challenge of climate change and make this threat our opportunity. The future is what we make of it. We are all in this together. 
And the question in this election is whether you and I still have the ability to give our kids a better future. I believe we do. That is why I am running for president and I need your help. 
Thank you. 
