CHAPTER I 
AT HOME 



FODAY I consider it my good fortune that Fate de- 

1 signated Braunau on the Inn as the place of my birth. 

For this small town is situated on the border between 

those two German States, the reunion of which seems, at 

least to us of the younger generation, a task to be furthered 

with every means our lives long. 

German-Austria must return to the great German mo- 
therland, and not because of economic considerations of 
any sort. No, no: even if from the economic point of view 
this union were unimportant, indeed, if it were harmful, it 
ought nevertheless to be brought about. Common blood be- 
longs in a common Reich. As long as the German nation is 
unable even to band together its own children in one com- 
mon State, it has no moral right to think of colonization as 
one of its political aims. Only when the boundaries of the 
Reich include even the last German, only when it is no 
longer possible to assure him of daily bread inside them, 
does there arise, out of the distress of the nation, the moral 
right to acquire foreign soil and territory. The sword is 
then the plow, and from the tears of war there grows the 
daily bread for generations to come. Therefore, this little 
town on the border appears to me the symbol of a great 
task. But in another respect also it looms up as a warning 



4 MEIN KAMPF 

to our present time. More than a hundred years ago, this 
insignificant little place had the privilege of gaining an 
immortal place in German history at least by being the 
scene of a tragic misfortune that moved the entire nation. 
There, during the time of the deepest humiliation of our 
fatherland, Johannes Palm, citizen of Nurnberg, a middle- 
class bookdealer, die-hard 'nationalist, 1 an enemy of the 

The idealism of the Wars of Liberation, waged by Prussia 
against Napoleon, is reflected in the career of Johann Phillip 
Palm, Nurnberg book-seller, who in 1806 issued a work en- 
titled, Deutschland in seiner tiefsten Erniedrigung (Germany in 
the Hour of Its Deepest Humiliation). This was a diatribe 
against the Corsican. Palm was tried by a military tribunal, 
sentenced to death, and shot at Braunau on August 26, 1806. 
During the centenary year (1906) a play in honor of Palm was 
written by A. Ebenhoch, an Austrian author. It is possible 
that Hitler may have seen or read this drama. 

Leo Schlageter, a German artillery officer who served after 
the World War in the Free Corps with which General von der 
Goltz attempted to conserve part of what Germany had gained 
by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, was found guilty of sabotage 
by a French military tribunal during the Ruhr invasion of 
1923. He had blown up a portion of the railway line between 
Dusseldorf and Duisburg, and had been caught in the act. 
The assertion that he was 'betrayed* to the French is without 
historical foundation. It was the policy of the German govern- 
ment to discountenance open military measures and to place 
its reliance upon so-called 'passive resistance.' Karl Severing, 
then Social Democratic Minister of the Interior in Prussia, was 
a zealous though cautious patriot whose firm defense of the 
democratic institutions of Weimar angered extremists of all 
kinds. He was thus a favorite Nazi target. The governments oi 
the Reich and of Prussia made every effort to save Schlageter. 
The Vatican intervened in his behalf, and it is generally sup- 
posed that the French authorities would have commuted the 
sentence had it not been for a sudden wave of opposition to 



AT HOME 5 

French, was killed for the sake of the Germany he ardently 
loved even in the hour of its distress. He had obstinately 
refused to denounce his fellow offenders, or rather the chief 
offenders. Thus he acted like Leo Schlageter. But like 
him, he too was betrayed to France by a representative of 
his government. It was a director of the Augsburg police 
who earned that shoddy glory, thus setting an example for 
the new German authorities of Heir Severing's Reich, 
t In this little town on the river Inn, gilded by the light of 
German martyrdom, there lived, at the end of the eighties 
of the last century, my parents, Bavarian by blood, Aus- 
trian by nationality : the father a faithful civil servant, the 

Poincar6's policy in the Chamber. That induced the govern- 
ment to make a show of firmness. Schlageter, whose last words 
are said to have been, 'Germany must live,' was executed on 
May 26, 1923. Immediately he became a German national hero. 
His example more than anything else hallowed the tradition of 
the Free Corps in the popular mind and thus strengthened pro- 
militaristic sentiment. One of the first cultural activities of the 
Nazi regime was a tribute to Schlageter. 

Hitler's family background has been a subject for much re- 
search and speculation. The father, Alois Hitler (1837-1903), 
was the illegitimate son of Maria Anna Schicklgruber; and it is 
generally assumed that the father was the man she married 
Johann Hiedler. Until he was forty, he bore the name of his 
mother, being known as Alois Schicklgruber. Then on January 
8, 1877, he legally changed the name to Hitler, which had been 
that of his maternal grandmother. His third wife was Klara 
Poelzl (1860-1908), who on April 20, 1889, gave birth to Adolf 
Hitler. There may have been a brother or half-brother if 
reports current in Nazi circles are to be credited. At any rate, 
Hitler has a living sister and a half-sister. The first has lived in 
retirement, but the second a woman of considerable charm 
and ability is known to have exercised no little influence at 
times. 



6 MEIN KAMPF 

mother devoting herself to the cares of the household and 
looking after her children with eternally the same loving 
kindness. I remember only little of this time, for a few 
years later my father had again to leave the little border 
town he had learned to like, and go down the Inn to take a 
new position at Passau, that is in Germany proper. 

But the lot of an Austrian customs official of those days 
frequently meant 'moving on.' Just a short time after- 
wards my father was transferred to Linz, and finally retired 
on a pension there. But this was not to mean * rest' for the 
old man. The son of a poor cottager, even in his childhood 
he had not been able to stay at home. Not yet thirteen 
years old, the little boy he then was bundled up his things 
and ran away from his homeland, the Waldviertel. Despite 
the dissuasion of 'experienced' inhabitants of the village 
he had gone to Vienna to learn a trade there. This was in 
the fifties of the last century. A bitter resolve it must have 
been to take to the road, into the unknown, with only three 
guilders for traveling money. But by the time the thirteen- 
year-old lad was seventeen, he had passed his apprentice's 
examination, but he had not yet found satisfaction. It was 
rather the opposite. The long time of hardship through 
which he then passed, of endless poverty and misery, 
strengthened his resolve to give up the trade after all in 
order to become something 'better.' If once the village 
pastor had seemed to the little boy the incarnation of all 
obtainable human success, now, in the big city which had 
so widened his perspective, the rank of civil servant became 
the ideal. With all the tenacity of one who had grown ' old ' 
through want and sorrow while still half a child, the sev- 
enteen-year-old youth clung to his decision . . . and became 
a civil servant. The goal was reached, I believe, after nearly 
twenty-three years. Now there had been realized the 
premise of the vow that the poor boy once had sworn, not 
to return to his dear native village before he had become 
something. 



AT HOME 7 

Now the goal was reached, but nobody in the village 
remembered the little boy of long ago, and the village had 
become a stranger to him. 

When he retired at the age of fifty-six, he was unable to 
spend a single day in 'doing nothing.' He bought a farm 
near Lambach in Upper Austria which he worked himself, 
thus returning, after a long and active life, to the origin of 
his ancestors. 

It was probably at that time that my first ideals were 
formed. A lot of romping around out-of-doors, the long 
trip to school, and the companionship with unusually 'ro- 
bust 1 boys, which at times caused my mother much grief, 
made me anything but a stay-at-home. Though I did not 
brood over my future career at that time, I had decidedly 
no sympathy for the course my father's life had taken. I 
believe that even then my ability for making speeches was 
trained by the more or less stirring discussions with my 
comrades. I had become a little ringleader and at that 
time learned easily and did very well in school, but for the 
rest I was rather difficult to handle. Inasmuch as I received 
singing lessons in my spare time in the choir of the Lambach 
Convent, I repeatedly had an excellent opportunity of intox- 
icating myself with the solemn splendor of the magnificent 
church festivals. It was perfectly natural that the position 
of abbot appeared to me to be the highest ideal obtainable, 
just as that of being the village pastor had appealed to my 
father. At least at times this was the case. For obvious 
reasons my father could not appreciate the talent for ora- 
tory of his quarrelsome son in the same measure, nor could 
he perceive in it any hope for the future of the lad, and so 
he showed no understanding for these youthful ideas. 
Sadly he observed this dissension of nature. 

Actually, my occasional longing for this profession dis- 
appeared very quickly and made way for aspirations more 
in keeping with my temperament. Rummaging through 



MEIN KAMPF 

my father's library, I stumbled upon various books on mili- 
tary subjects, and among them I found a popular edition 
dealing with the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-71. These 
were two volumes of an illustrated journal of the period 
which now became my favorite reading matter. Before 
long that great heroic campaign had become my greatest 
spiritual experience. From then on I raved more and more 
about everything connected with war or with militarism. 

Since Hitler's outlook and policies are rooted in Austrian ex- 
perience (it is sometimes said that he 'made Germany an Aus- 
trian's province') some remarks on the general situation in his 
home land may be helpful. The Austria-Hungary of the last 
three decades of the nineteenth century was only the remnant 
of a Habsburg Empire that had once included most of western 
Europe. It was a 'dual monarchy,' the crown belonging to the 
monarch as Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary. Since 
most of Germany had been welded together (1871) by Bis- 
marck in an empire ruled by the Hohenzollern kings of Prussia, 
the Germans who remained in Austria-Hungary constituted a 
minority, even though most of the important bureaucratic 
positions were still in their hands. The position obtained by 
Hungary made their lot no easier. For soon every ' nationality ' 
wished to secure comparable advantages for itself. 

The monarchy itself had suffered many a reverse. Under 
Frederick the Great and Bismarck, the Prussians had inflicted 
several major defeats upon their Austrian rivals. While the 
revolutionary liberalism of 1848 was successfully put down at 
the cost of severe fighting, the power of the bureaucratic State 
was none the less seriously undermined and the eventual 
triumph of 'constitutionalism* in 1860-61 was assured. In 
addition the unification of Italy was achieved at the cost of 
Austrian prestige and possessions. And though the Partition of 
Poland had added Galicia to the Habsburg domains, it was 
always doubtful who ruled the province the Poles or the 
Austrians. Galicia was also the home of large Jewish com- 
munities, from which strong contingents moved to Vienna 
and other important cities. 



AT HOME 9 

But this was to prove of importance to me in another 
direction as well. For the first time the question confronted 
me I was a bit confused, perhaps if and what differ- 
ence there was between those Germans fighting these bat- 
tles and the others. Why was it that Austria had not taken 
part also in this war, why not my father, and why not all 
the others? -&lt; 

Are we not the same as all the other Germans? 

Do we not all belong together? This problem now began 
to whirl through my little head for the first time. After 
cautious questioning, I heard with envy the reply that not 
every German was fortunate enough to belong to Bis- 
marck's Reich. 

This I could not understand. 

I was to become a student. 



From 1880 onward, the problem of * nationalities' dominated 
Austrian life. On the one hand, the Hungarians were concerned 
lest the Slavic groups Czechs, Croats, Poles, etc. extend 
their demand for autonomy to the point where the Empire 
would become a * federation' of States, and therefore made 
common cause with the Germans on issues affecting the status 
quo. But a good many Germans, for their part, felt aggrieved 
at having been excluded from the Bismarckian Empire and 
saw no future for themselves in a predominantly Slavic State. 
On the other hand, the Czechs and kindred 'nationalities' con- 
tinued to urge the idea of a federation, and to insist upon the 
right to foster their own languages and cultures. The Habs- 
burg rulers had no choice save recourse to continual compro- 
mise. In the Austrian parliament common national interests, 
for example the army, were always being subordinated to hotly 
debated matters of domestic 'nationality' policy. Doubtless 
there was no way out except the establishment of a federation. 
To this idea Franz Ferdinand, the Crown Prince whose murder 
at Saravejo was the immediate cause of the World War, seems 
to have committed himself. 



10 MEIN KAMPF 

Because of my entire nature, even more because of my 
temperament, my father thought he was right in concluding 
that attendance at the humanistic Gymnasium would not 
be in keeping with my ability. He thought that the Real- 
schule [a German secondary school for modern subjects and 
sciences] seemed more suitable. This opinion was strength- 
ened by my obvious talent for drawing; this subject, he 
thought, had been neglected in the Austrian schools. Per- 
haps his own lifetime of hard work was a decisive factor and 
made him appreciate humanistic studies to a lesser degree, 
for to him they appeared impractical. As a matter of prin- 
ciple, he was determined that like himself his son should, 
nay must, become an official. It was natural that the bitter 
experiences of his own youth made his later achievements 
appear so much greater, especially since they were exclu- 

Some Germans protested strongly against these tendencies. 
Nevertheless, the effort to create a party openly favorable to 
the separation of German Austria from the Austro-Hungarian 
Empire and its merger in the Bismarckian State was far less 
successful than might have been anticipated. The early Na- 
tionalists of the iSSo's eventually gave rise to the Grossdeutsch 
Partei of Hitler's youth, which was violently critical of the 
Habsburgs and of all concessions made to the Slavs during the 
years 1879-1900. Perhaps it would have gained more ground 
if Bismarck had been vitally interested in the problem. But in 
addition to the dynastic question of the status of the Habsburgs, 
he had after 1871 to avoid giving the impression that Prussia 
was an expansion-hungry State. He also realized that the 
Vienna monarchy was a source of unity in the chaotic south- 
east of Europe, in the affairs of which he did not wish to involve 
Germany. Accordingly, the Grossdeutsch people got little 
sympathy from him. When he was dismissed from his post by 
Emperor Wilhelm II, the sole group remaining in Germany 
that could have given much support to the separationist move- 
ment in German Austria was the AUdeutscher Verband (Pan- 



AT HOME 11 

sively the result of his own industry and energy. It was the 
pride of the self-made man which moved him to endeavor 
to bring his son to a similar position in life, if not a better 
one, and all the more since he hoped to make things easier 
for the child through his own industry. 

It was unthinkable that that which had become the con- 
tent of his whole life could be rejected. Thus the father's 
decision was matter-of-fact, simple, exact, and clear, quite 
comprehensibly in his own eyes. His domineering nature, 
the result of a lifelong struggle for existence, would have 
thought it unbearable to leave the ultimate decision to a 
boy who, in his opinion, was inexperienced and irrespon- 
sible. What is more, this would have been inconsistent with 
his idea of duty, a wicked and reprehensible weakness in 
exercising his paternal authority as he saw it in his respon- 
sibility for the future of his son. 

German League), an organization of chauvinists and expan- 
sionists. They, however, looked upon Austria-Hungary as a 
powerful ally and as a diving-board for the plunge eastward 
which they looked upon as the German destiny. 

In Austria itself the Grossdeutsch elements adopted a policy 
calculated to insure failure. They sponsored a little Kultur- 
kampf (religious war) of their own, attacking the clergy and 
the Church; they disassociated themselves from all social re- 
form and all concessions to other groups; and they were given 
to rabid attacks on the monarchy. As a consequence, the Ger- 
man group was more seriously divided than ever. These mis- 
takes all made, as is evident from the text of Mein Kampf , a 
deep and lasting impression upon Hitler. Just as he was dis- 
gusted with the wrangling about 'nationality' problems that 
characterized the Austrian parliament, so was he conscious of 
the mistakes which the pro- Prussia leaders had made. He 
never disassociated himself from the principles adopted by 
those leaders, but he learned to look askance at their methods. 

The extent of Austrian yearning for incorporation in the 



12 MEIN KAMPF 

And yet the course of events was to take a different turn. 

For the first time in my life, I was barely eleven, I was 
forced into opposition. No matter how firm and deter- 
mined my father might be in carrying out his plans and 
intentions once made, his son was just as stubborn and 
obstinate in rejecting an idea which had little or no appeal 
for him. 

I did not want to become an official. 

Neither persuasion nor ' sincere ' arguments were able to 
break down this resistance. I did not want to become an 
official, no, and again no! All attempts to arouse my inter- 
est or my liking for such a career by stories of my father's 
life had the opposite effect. The thought of being a slave 
in an office made me ill ; not to be master of my own time, 
but to force an entire lifetime into the filling-in of forms, 
t What ideas this must have awakened in a boy who was 
anything but ' good ' in the ordinary sense of the word ! The 
ridiculously easy learning at school left me so much spare 

German Empire or, after 1918, the German Republic, is a moot 
question. Prior to the War, anti-Prussian sentiment was 
probably just as vigorous among the people generally as pro- 
Habsburg sentiment. After the defeat there was a general 
feeling that the little independent State of Austria could not 
survive. Even so it is very doubtful whether the demand for 
Anschluss was as 'elemental 1 as Hitler says it was. Some 
Austrians notably Professor Ludo Hartmann sponsored 
it with vigor and eloquence. A few unofficial plebiscites were 
held in Salzburg and elsewhere and seemed to show that senti- 
ment was overwhelmingly in favor of Anschluss; but individu- 
ally and collectively they have little value as evidence. Other 
sources of information (e.g., records of party deliberations) give 
a different impression. Undoubtedly the desire for union grew 
during the following years, but it is none the less doubtful 
whether an honest plebiscite in 1938 would have favored ab- 
sorption of Austria into the Third Reich. 



AT HOME 13 

time that the sun saw more of me than the four walls of my 
room. When today my political opponents examine my life 
down to the time of my childhood with loving attention, so 
that at last they can point with relief to the intolerable 
pranks this 'Hitler 1 carried out even in his youth, I thank 
Heaven for now giving me a share of the memories of those 
happy days. Woods and meadows were the battlefield 
where the ever-present 'conflicts' were fought out. 

My attendance at the Realschule, which now followed, 
did little to deter me. 

But now it was a different conflict that had to be fought. 

This was bearable as long as my father's intention to 
make an official of me was confronted by nothing more than 
my dislike of the profession on general principles. I could 
restrain my private views and, after all, it was not always 
necessary for me to contradict. My own firm intention not 
to become an official was sufficient to set my mind at rest. 
This decision, however, was irrevocable. The question be- 
came more difficult as soon as my father's plan was met by 
one of my own. This took place when I was twelve years 
old. I do not know how it happened, but one day it was 
clear to me that I would become a painter, an artist. My 
talent for drawing was obvious and it was one of the reasons 
why my father had sent me to the Realschule, but he never 
would have thought of having me trained for such a career. 
On the contrary. When, after a renewed rejection of my 
father's favorite idea, I was asked for the first time what I 
intended to be after all, I unexpectedly burst forth with the 
resolve I had irrevocably made; in the meantime my father 
at first was speechless. 

'A painter? An artist?' 

He doubted my sanity, he did not trust his own ears or 
thought that he had misunderstood. But when it had been 
explained to him and when he had sensed the sincerity of 
my intentions, he opposed me with the resoluteness of his 



14 MEIN KAMPF 

entire nature. His decision was quite simple, and any con- 
sideration of those actual talents that I might have pos- 
sessed was out of the question. 

'An artist, no, never as long as I live/ But as his son had 
undoubtedly inherited, amongst other qualities, a stubborn- 
ness similar to his own, he received a similar reply. Only 
its meaning was quite different. 

So the situation remained on both sides. My father did not 
give up his 'never* and I strengthened my 'nevertheless/ 

Obviously the consequences were not very enjoyable. 
The old man became embittered, and, much as I loved him, 
the same was true of myself. My father forbade me to 
entertain any hope of ever becoming a painter. I went one 
step farther by declaring that under these circumstances 
I no longer wished to study. Naturally, as the result of such 
'declarations' I got the 'worst of it,' and now the old man 
relentlessly began to enforce his authority. I remained 
silent and turned my threats into action. I was certain 
that, as soon as my father saw my lack of progress in 
school, come what may he would let me seek the happiness 
of which I was dreaming. 

I do not know if this reasoning was sound. One thing 
was certain : my apparent failure in school. I learned what 
I liked, but above all I learned what in my opinion might 
be necessary to me in my future career as a painter. In this 
connection I sabotaged all that which seemed unimportant 
or that which no longer attracted me. At that time my 
marks were always extreme depending upon the subject and 
my evaluation of it. ' Praiseworthy ' and ' Excellent ' ranked 
with 'Sufficient' and ' Insufficient. 1 My best efforts were in 
geography and perhaps even more so in history. These 
were my two favorite subjects and in them I led my class.-* 

Now, after so many years, when I examine the results of 
that period, I find two outstanding facts of particular im- 
portance: 



AT HOME 15 

First, / became a nationalist. 

Second, / learned lo grasp and to understand the meaning 
of history. 

Old Austria was a 'State of nationalities. 9 
t A citizen of the German Empire, at that time at least, 
could hardly understand the bearing of this fact upon the 
daily life of the individual in such a State. After the amaz- 
ingly victorious campaign of the heroic German armies 
during the Franco- Prussian War, one had become more and 
more estranged from the Germans abroad, partly because 
one no longer knew how to appreciate them or perhaps 
because one was unable to do so. As far as the Austro 
German was concerned, it was easy to confuse the decadent 
dynasty with a people who were sound at heart. 

It was hard to understand that, were the German in 
Austria not actually of the best stock, he never would have 
been able to impress his mark upon a State of fifty-two mil- 
lion people in such a manner as to create even in Germany 
the erroneous impression that Austria was a German State. 
This was nonsensical, with the gravest of consequences, but 
brilliant testimony for the ten million Germans in the Ost- 
mark. Only a very few Germans in the empire had any 
idea of the continuous and inexorable struggle waged for 
the German language, the German schools, and the German 
mode of existence. Only today, when this misery has been 
forced upon millions of our people outside of the Reich 
proper, who, under foreign domination, dream of a common 
fatherland and in their longing for it strive to preserve their 
most sacred claim their mother tongue only today 
wider circles understand what it means to fight for one's 
nationality. It is now perhaps that the one or the other will 
be able to realize the greatness of the Germans abroad in 
the old East of the Reich who at first, dependent upon them- 
selves, for centuries protected the Reich in the East, and 
at last guarded the German language frontier in a war of 



16 MEIN KAMPF 

attrition at a time when the Reich was greatly interested in 
colonies but not in its own flesh and blood outside its very 
doors. 

As everywhere and always, as in every struggle, there 
were also in the language struggle of the old Austria three 
groups: 

The fighters, the lukewarm, and the traitors. 

Even in school this segregation was apparent. It is sig- 
nificant for the language struggle on the whole that its ways 
engulf the school, the seed bed of the coming generation. 
The child is the objective of the struggle and the very first 
appeal is addressed to it: 

'German boy, do not forget that you are a German.' 

'German maid, remember that you are to be a German 
mother/ + 

Those who know the soul of youth will understand that 
it is youth which lends its ears to such a battle-cry with the 
greatest joy. In hundreds of forms, in its own way and 
with its own weapons, it carried on the battle. It refuses to 
sing non-German songs; the more one tries to estrange it 
from German heroic grandeur, the more enthusiastic it 
waxes; it stints itself to collect pennies for the fund of the 
grown-ups; it has an unusually fine ear for all that the non- 
German teacher says to it; it is rebellious; it wears the for- 
bidden emblem of its own nationality and rejoices in being 
punished or even in being beaten for wearing that emblem. 
On a smaller scale youth is a true reflection of its elders, but 
more often with a deeper and a more honest conviction. 

At a comparatively early age I, too, was given the oppor- 
tunity to participate in the national struggle of old Austria. 
Money was collected for the Sildmark and the school club; 
our conviction was demonstrated by the wearing of corn- 
flowers and the colors black, red, and gold; the greeting was 
1 Heil ' ; ' Deutschland iiber alles f was preferred to the imperial 
anthem, despite warnings and punishments. In this man- 



AT HOME 17 

ner the boy was trained politically at an age when a member 
of a so-called national State knows little more of his nation- 
ality than its language. It is obvious that already then I 
did not belong to the lukewarm. In a short time I had be- 
come a fanatical 'German nationalist/ a term which is not 
identical with our same party name of today. 

My development was quite rapid, so that at the age of 
fifteen I already understood the difference between dynastic 
'patriotism* and popular 'nationalism'; at that time the 
latter alone existed for me. 

Those who have never taken the trouble to study closely 
the internal situation of the Habsburg monarchy may not 
be able to understand the full meaning of these events. In 
this State the origin for this development was to be found 
in the lessons in world history taught in the schools, since 
there is practically no specific Austrian history as such. 

The conservative cabinet headed (1879-1893) by Taafe at- 
tempted to solve the problems of the Empire by winning the 
support of the Slavic groups. In 1895-1897 Count Casimir 
Badeni sponsored legislation favoring the Czechs in linguistic 
and cultural matters; and violent opposition to these measures 
was aroused among the nationalistic Germans. The Deuischer 
Schulverein (German School Society), an organization founded 
in 1880 to promote German schools in foreign countries, was a 
center of resistance particularly in Carinthia, where the Slavs 
were looked upon as especially menacing. The corn-flower was 
a patriotic symbol in Wilhelmian days. Deutschland, DeiUsth- 
land uber alles, a lyric written by Fallersleben in 1841, was 
sung by the nationalistic groups in Austria to the tune written 
by Hayden for the Imperial hymn. Singing it was, therefore, 
an insult to the Habsburgs. The 'HeiF an old German form 
of greeting was used by Austrian nationalists instead of tfie 
native forms (e.g., Griiss Gotf), and had an anti-Semitic under- 
tone. It required little manipulation to transform all these 
things into the Nazi practices now current. 



18 MEIN KAMPF 

The fate of this State is so closely bound up with the life 
and growth of the entire German nationality that it is 
unthinkable to separate its history into German and 
Austrian. As a matter of fact when Germany began to 
split into two supreme powers, this very separation became 
German history. 

The imperial crown jewels kept in Vienna, reminders of 
the old realm splendor, still seem to exercise a magic spell, 
a pledge of eternal communion. 

The German-Austrian's elementary outcry for a reunion 
with the German motherland during the days of the break- 
down of the Habsburg State was merely the result of a 
feeling of nostalgia slumbering deep in the hearts of the 
entire nation for a return to the paternal home which had 
never been forgotten. This would be inexplicable had not 
the political education of each individual German-Austrian 
been the origin of that common longing. In it there lies a 
longing which contains a well that never dries, especially 
in time of forgetfulness and of temporary well-being it 
will again and again forecast the future in recalling the 
past. 

Even today, courses in world history in the so-called 
secondary schools are still badly neglected. Few teachers 
realize that the aim of history lessons should not consist in 
the memorizing and rattling forth of historical facts and 
data; that it does not matter whether a boy knows when 
this or that battle was fought, when a certain military 
leader was born, or when some monarch (in most cases a 
very mediocre one) was crowned with the crown of his an- 
cestors. Good God, these things do not matter. 

To 'learn' history means to search for and to find the 
forces which cause those effects which we later face as 
historical events. 

Here, too, the art of reading, like that of learning, is to 
remember the important, to forget the unimportant. 



AT HOME 19 

It was perhaps decisive for my entire future life that I 
was fortunate enough to have a history teacher who was 
one of the few who understood how essential it was to make 
this the dominating factor in his lessons and examinations. 
At the Realschule in Linz my teacher was Professor Doctor 
Ludwig Poetsch, who personified this requisite in an ideal 
way. The old gentleman, whose manner was as kind as 
it was firm, not only knew how to keep us spellbound, but 
actually carried us away with the splendor of his eloquence. 
I am still slightly moved when I remember the gray-haired 
man whose fiery descriptions made us forget the present 
and who evoked plain historical facts out of the fog of the 
centuries and turned them into living reality. Often we 
would sit there enraptured in enthusiasm and there were 
even times when we were on the verge of tears. 

Our happiness was the greater inasmuch as this teacher 
not only knew how to throw light on the past by utilizing 
the present, but also how to draw conclusions from the past 
and applying them to the present. More than anyone else 
he showed understanding for all the daily problems which 
held us breathless at the time. He used our youthful na- 

The educational ideas here expressed are in part the common 
property of all who have gone to school and in part the legacy 
of Turnvater Jahn, the founder of the Turnvereine, or gymnas- 
tic societies, whose Deutsches Volkstum (German Folkishness) 
appeared in 1810, and whose part in rallying Prussian youth 
against Napoleon was a most estimable one. When Hitler 
speaks of the girl who ought to remember that her duty is to 
become a German mother, or of history as the science which 
demonstrates that one's own people is always right, he is 
echoing Jahn in the first instance. The best discussion in Eng- 
lish of this interesting pedagogue is still an essay which appeared 
in the London Magazine during 1820, when these new Prussian 
ideas of education seemed important but strange to English- 
men. 



20 MEIN KAMPF 

tional fanaticism as a means of education by repeatedly 
appealing to our sense of national honor, and through this 
alone he was able to manage us rascals more easily than 
would have been possible by any other means. 

He was the teacher who made history my favorite sub- 
ject. 

Nevertheless, although it was entirely unintentional on 
his part, I already then became a young revolutionary. 

Who could possibly study German history with such a 
teacher and not become an enemy of the State which, 
through its ruling dynasty, so disastrously influenced the 
state of the nation? 

And who could keep faith with an imperial dynasty which 
betrayed the cause of the German people for its own ig- 
nominious ends, a betrayal that occurred again and again 
in the past and in the present? 

Boys though we were, did we not already realize that this 
Austrian State did not and could not harbor love for us 
Germans? 

Our historical knowledge of the influence of the House 
of Habsburg was supported by daily experiences. In the 
North and the South the poison of foreign nationalities 

This is probably one of the most revealing passages in the 
book. Hitler has consistently considered himself a 'Revolu- 
tionary,' but has added little to the interpretation of the term 
given here. The longing to change the structure of society de- 
veloped, in his case, not out of the consciousness of real or fan- 
cied social and economic injustices, but out of the feeling that 
the Ruling House did not adequately support the demands of 
the German groups. After the War he took an identical point 
of view in Germany itself, laying siege to the Weimar Republic 
because its policy of international conciliation seemed to him a 
duplicate of the policy of making concessions to Slavic groups 
which Habsburg governments had sponsored. Cf . Adolf Hitter, 
by Theodor Heuss (1932). 



AT HOME 21 

eroded the body of our own nationality, and it was apparent 
how even Vienna became less and less a German city. The 
Royal House became Czech wherever possible, and it must 
have been the hand of the goddess of eternal justice and 
inexorable retribution which caused Archduke Franz 
Ferdinand, the most deadly enemy of Austrian-Germanism, 
to fall by the very bullets he himself had helped to mold. 
For was he not the patron of Austria's Slavization from 
above ! 

The burdens which the German people had to bear were 
enormous, its sacrifices in taxes and blood unheard of, and 
yet, everyone who had eyes to see realized that all this 
would IDC in vain. What grieved us most was the fact that 
the whole system was morally protected by the alliance with 
Germany, and thus Germany herself, in a fashion, sanc- 
tioned the slow extermination of the German nationality 
in the old monarchy. The hypocrisy of the Habsburgs, who 
knew well how to create the impression abroad that Austria 
was still a German State, fanned the hatred against this 
house into flaming indignation and contempt. 

It was only in the Reich itself that the 'chosen ones' saw 
nothing of all this. As if stricken with blindness, they 
walked by the side of the corpse, and in the indications of 
decomposition they thought they detected signs of 'new' 
life. 

The tragic alliance between the young Reich and the old 
Austrian sham State was the source of the ensuing World 
War and of the general collapse as well. 

In the course of this book I shall find it necessary to deal 
further with this problem. It suffices to state here that from 
my earliest youth I came to a conviction which never de- 
serted me, but on the contrary, grew stronger and stronger: 

That the protection of the German race presumed the destruc- 
tion of Austria, and further, that national feeling is in no way 
identical with dynastic patriotism; that above all else, the 



22 MEIN KAMPF 

Royal House of Habsburg was destined to bring misfortune 
upon the German nation. 

Even then I had drawn the necessary deductions from 
this realization: an intense love for my native German- 

The picture Hitler draws of his early youth is, therefore, one 
of idle years spent fighting off formal education under the pre- 
text that he wanted to become an artist. That he has ever 
since considered himself brilliantly gifted as a painter and archi- 
tect is indubitable. The flags, uniforms and insignia of the 
Party were designed by him. The 'senate chamber* and study 
in the Brown House, Munich, are proudly displayed as exam- 
ples of the Fuhrcr's (Leader's) work. In the first, which is 
primarily a study in red leather, the swastika serves as an al- 
lusion to the SPQR of ancient Rome. Later on his views were 
influenced by his Bavarian environment, more particularly it 
would seem by the art theories of Schulze-Naumburg, who in 
the Thuringia of 1930 led the attack on modernistic art and 
architecture. 

During 1937 Munich was stirred by an exposition of 'De- 
generate Art,' which gathered from the museums pictures ad- 
judged not to be in the strict Aryan tradition. Meanwhile 
there had been erected in the same city a Kunsthalle adorned 
with a row of simple classical pillars; and this structure is 
generally accepted as embodying Hitler's ideal of what a build- 
ing ought to be. The example of Mussolini also had its effect. 
In order to provide a suitable approach to the Kunsthalle, one 
of King Ludwig's ancient streets was torn down and widened. 
Down this avenue, festooned with countless flags and abundant 
drapery, II Duce proceeded upon the occasion of his historic 
trip to Munich in 1937. 

More recently the new Chancellery in Berlin has been com- 
pleted. A skyscraper, taller than any in New York, was pro- 
jected for Hamburg. Hitler is also known to have devised 
models of a Vienna and Berlin reconstructed according to his 
ideas of what a city ought to be. Enormous sums have already 
been diverted into building operations. 



AT HOME S3 

Austrian country and a bitter hatred against the 'Austrian* 
State. 



The art of historical thinking, which had been taught me 
in school, has never left me since. More and more, world 
history became a never-failing source of my understanding 
of the historical events of the present, that is, politics. What 
is more, I do not want to ' learn ' it, but I want it to teach 
me. 

Since I had become a political 'revolutionary' at so early 
a stage, it was not much later that I became an 'artistic' 
one. 

At that time the capital of Upper Austria had a theater of 
fairly high standing. Almost everything was performed 
there. At the age of twelve I saw 'Wilhelm Tell' for the 
first time, and a few months later, I saw the first opera of 
my life, 4 Lohengrin.' I was captivated at once. My youth- 
ful enthusiasm for the master of Bayreuth knew no bounds. 
Again and again I was drawn to his works and today I con- 
sider it particularly fortunate that the modesty of that 
provincial performance reserved for me the opportunity of 
seeing increasingly better productions. 

All this served to confirm my deep-rooted aversion for 
the career my father had chosen for me, especially after I 
had left childhood behind and approached manhood a 
painful experience. I was more definitely convinced that I 
could never be happy as an official. And now that my talent 
for drawing had also been recognized in school, my resolve 
was even more firmly established. 

Neither pleas nor threats could influence me. 

I wanted to become a painter, and no power on earth 
could ever make an official of me. 

But it was strange that as the years passed, I demon- 
strated more and more interest in architecture. At that 



24 MEIN KAMPF 

time I took it for granted that this was merely an augmen- 
tation of my talent for painting and secretly I was delighted 
at this widening of my artistic horizon. 

I had no idea that things were to turn out so differently. 



The question of my career was to be settled more quickly 
than I had anticipated. 

When I was thirteen my father died quite suddenly. The 
old gentleman, who had always been so robust and healthy, 
had a stroke which painlessly ended his wanderings in this 
world, plunging us all in the depths of despair. His dearest 
wish, to help his son to build up his existence, thus safe- 
guarding him against the pitfalls of his own bitter experi- 
ence, had apparently not been fulfilled. But unconsciously 
he had sown the seed for a future which neither he nor I 
would have grasped at that time. 

At first nothing changed in my daily life. 

My mother probably felt the obligation to continue my 
education in accordance with my father's wishes, in other 
words, to have me continue my studies for the career of an 
official. But I was determined more than ever not to be- 
come an official. My attitude became more and more in- 
different in the same measure that the subjects and the 
education which school afforded me deviated from my own 
ideal. Suddenly an illness came to my aid, and in the course 
of a few weeks, settled the perpetual arguments at home 
and, with them, my future. Because of a severe pulmonary 
illness, the doctor strongly advised my mother not to place 
me in an office later on under any circumstances. I was 
also to give up school for at least one year. With this event, 
all that I had fought for, all that I had longed for in secret, 
suddenly became reality. 

Impressed by my illness, my mother agreed at long last 
to take me out of school and to send me to the Akademie. 



AT HOME 25 

These were my happiest days; they seemed like a dream 
to me, and so they were. Two years later my mother's 
death put a sudden end to all these delightful plans. 

It was the end of a long and painful illness that had 
seemed fatal from the very beginning. Nevertheless it was 
a terrible shock to me. I had respected my father, but I 
loved my mother. 

Necessity and stern reality now forced me to make a 
quick decision. My mother's severe illness had almost ex- 
hausted the meager funds left by my father; the orphan's 
pension which I received was not nearly enough for me to 
live on, and so I was faced with the problem of earning my 
own daily bread. 

I went to Vienna with a suitcase, containing some clothes 
and my linen, in my hand and an unshakable determination 
in my heart. I, too, hoped to wrest from Fate the success my 
father had met fifty years earlier; I, too, wanted to become 
'something' but in no event an official. 



CHAPTER II 

YEARS OF STUDY AND 
SUFFERING IN VIENNA 



t% ^W^ JTHEN my mother died, Fate had cast the die in 
\J\X one direction at least. 

T T During the last months of her suffering, I had 
gone to Vienna to take my entrance examination to the 
Akademic. I had set out with a lot of drawings, convinced 
that I would pass the examination with ease. At the Real- 
schulc I had been by far the best artist in my class; and 
since then my ability had improved greatly, so that my self- 
satisfaction made me hope both proudly and happily for 
the best. 

There was but one cloud which occasionally made its ap- 
pearance; my talent for painting sometimes seemed to over- 
shadow my ability for drawing, especially in nearly all of 
the branches of architecture. Also my interest in the art 
of building as a whole grew steadily. This was stimulated, 
when I was not quite sixteen, by the fact that I was allowed 
for the first time to spend a two weeks' vacation in Vienna. 
I went there especially to study the picture gallery of the 
Hofmuseum, but I had eyes for nothing but the buildings 
of the museum itself. All day long, from early morn until 
late at night, I ran from one sight to the next, for what at- 
tracted me most of all were the buildings. For hours on end 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 27 

I would stand in front of the opera or admire the Parliament 
Building; the entire Ringstrasse affected me like a fairy tale 
out of the Arabian Nights. 

And now I was in this beautiful city for the second time, 
burning with impatience; I waited with pride and confi- 
dence to learn the result of my entrance examination. I was 
so convinced of my success that the announcement of my 
failure came like a bolt from the blue. And yet it was true. 
When I had obtained an interview with the director and 
asked him to explain why I had not been admitted to the 
general painting school at the Akademie, he assured me that 
the drawings I had submitted clearly showed my lack of 
painting ability, but that my talents obviously lay in the 
field of architecture; it was the school of architecture and 
not the school of painting where I belonged. They could 
not understand why I had not attended a school for archi- 
tecture or why I had not been given any instruction in this art. 

Downcast, I left von Hansen's magnificent building on 
the Schillerplatz, dissatisfied with myself for the first time 
in my life. What I had been told about my ability was like 
a bright flash of lightning which seemed to illuminate a dis- 
sonance from which I had long suffered, but as yet I had not 
been able to give myself a clear account of its wherefore and 
whyfore. 

A few days later I, too, knew that I would become an 
architect. 

However, the way was to be an extremely difficult one, 
for all that which I had stubbornly neglected at the Real- 
schule was to take its vengeance now. The admission to the 
school of architecture of the Akademie was dependent on 
attendance at the Polytechnic's building school, and admis- 
sion to this was only possible after having received a certifi- 
cate of maturity at a secondary school. I was without all 
this. In all human probability it seemed as though the 
realization of my artist dreams was no longer possible. 



28 MEIN KAMPF 

When, after my mother's death, I went to Vienna for 
the third time and this time to remain there for many years, 
I had in the meantime regained my peace and my confi- 
dence. My former obstinacy had returned and my goal was 
finally fixed before my eyes. I wanted to become an archi- 
tect, and one should not submit to obstacles but overcome 
them. And I would overcome these obstacles, always bear- 
ing in mind my father's example, who, from being a poor 
village boy and a cobbler's apprentice, had made his way 
up to the position of civil servant. Now I was on surer 
ground and the chances for the struggle were better; what I 
then looked upon as the cruelty of Fate, I praise today as 
the wisdom of Providence. When the Goddess of Misery 
took me into her arms more than once and threatened to 



Hitler's mother died on December 21, 1908, leaving him vir- 
tually penniless. He left Vienna again in the spring of 1912. 
During the period intervening, he lived generally in the Refuge 
for Men, in Vienna-Brigittenau, Information concerning his 
activities has been supplied by various people who then knew 
him, primarily Rudolf Hanisch, a designer, whose memoirs have 
been evaluated by Heiden. It is often difficult to determine 
whether these traditions are historically accurate, since the 
Hitler of Vienna days was a bit of human flotsam who in addi- 
tion kept pretty much to himself. But we know that he slept 
in a ward with other derelicts, that he was fed at the gate of 
the monastery in the Gumpendorferstrasse; that in winter he 
earned an occasional schilling with a snow shovel; and that he 
drew little water-colors and sketches whicii Hanisch peddled 
around at the humbler art shops. It has been proved that at 
the time he had Jewish acquaintances and a number of Jewish 
friends. More important, however, is the fact that he spent 
much time in the cafes, reading the newspapers constantly 
available there. He was never, then, a 'house painter, 1 but 
remained a young man with a poor scholastic record who had 
time to read political journalism. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 29 

crush me, the will to resist grew and was finally victorious. 
I owe much to the time in which I had learned to become 
hard and also that I know now how to be hard. I praise it 
even more for having rescued me from the emptiness of an 
easy life, that it took the milksop out of his downy nest and 
gave him Dame Sorrow for a foster mother, that it threw 
him out into the world of misery and poverty, tnus making 
him acquainted with those for whom he was later to fight. 



During this time my eyes were to be opened to two dan- 
gers which hitherto I had barely known by name ; but I did 
not perceive their terrible bearing upon the existence of the 
German race to its fullest extent. 

Vienna, the city that to so many represents the idea of 
harmless gaiety, the festive place for merry-making, is to 
me only the living memory of the most miserable time of 
my life. 

Even today it can waken only depressing thoughts in my 
mind. The name of this Phaeacian city means five years of 
sorrow and misery. Five years in which I had to make my 
living, first as a worker, then as a painter; a truly scanty 
living, for it was barely enough to appease even my daily 
hunger. Hunger was then my faithful guard; he was the 
only friend who never left me, who shared everything with 
me honestly. Every book I bought aroused his sympathy; 
a visit to the opera made him my companion for days; it 
was a constant struggle with a pitiless friend. And yet, dur- 
ing this time, I learned as I had never learned before. Apart 
from my interest in architecture and my visits to the opera 
for which I had to stint myself, books were my only pleasure. 

At that time I read endlessly, but thoroughly. The spare 
time my work left to me I spent entirely in study. So in a 
few years I built a foundation of knowledge from which I 
still draw nourishment today. 



30 MEIN KAMPF 

But much more than that. 

At that time I formed an image of the world and a vie* 
of life which became the granite foundation for my actions. 
I have had to add but little to that which I had learned then 
and I have had to change nothing. 

On the contrary. 

Today it is my firm belief that in general all creative 
ideas appear in youth, provided they are present at all. 
Here I distinguish between the wisdom of old age, which, 
as the result of the experiences of a long life, is of value only 
in the form of a greater thoroughness and carefulness as 
contrasted with the genius of youth whose inexhaustible 
fertility pours forth thoughts and ideas without being able 
to digest them because of their abundance. Youth fur- 
nishes the building material and the plans for the future; 
maturity takes and cuts the stones and constructs the build- 
ing, provided the so-called wisdom of old age has not suf- 
focated the genius of youth. 



The life I had known in my father's house showed little 
or no difference from that of other people. I looked forward 
to each new day without a care and social problems were un- 
known to me. The surroundings of my childhood were the 
circles of the bourgeoisie, a world which had but very few 
connections with the working classes. Though at first sight 

Here Hitler describes very well the feeling which was later 
on to swell the ranks of the National-Socialist Party. 'The 
bourgeois and peasant middle classes still constitute forty-five 
per cent of the total population of Germany ,' wrote Guenter 
Keiser in June, 1931. 'Today they have a mass movement, the 
beginnings of a program, the nucleus of a leadership, a firm 
determination to have their way, a contagious activism, and 
a myth of the Third Reich. All these things are necessary 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 31 

it may seem absurd, yet the difference between these two, 
unfavored as they are by economic conditions, is greater 
than one realizes. The reason for that which one could al- 
most call 'hostility* is the fact that a social class, which has 
only recently worked its way up from the level of manual 
labor, fears to fall back into the old, but little esteemed, 
class, or at least fears being counted in with that class. In 
addition many remember with disgust the misery existing 
in the lower class; the frequent brutality of their daily social 
contacts; their own position in society, however small it 
may be, makes every contact with the state of life and 
culture, which they in turn have left behind, unbearable. 

This explains why members of the higher social class can 
frequently lower themselves to the humblest of their fellow 

outgrowths of historical development and cannot be disposed 
of with an allusion to " demagogues." These masses are neither 
pro- nor anti-capitalistic. They are opposed to certain especial 
aspects of high capitalism and to certain particular ways in 
which capitalism manifests itself. Before the War . . . the 
handicrafts prospered, retail merchants profited by reason of 
expanding markets, and the peasants were benefited by the 
rise in the standard of living. But today, inside the far narrower 
boundaries of the post- War economy, the expansionist impulse 
latent in capitalism is carrying that capitalism into the dis- 
tribution process. Department stores, branch concerns, ten- 
cent stores, direct sales by the manufacturer, etc., are now nor- 
mal. Technical progress is also making it possible to organize 
on a wholesale, capitalistic basis what until now have been 
typical handicraft industries, e.g., baking, butchering, tailor- 
ing, building. . . . Finally, the more bureaucratic the corpo- 
rative enterprise becomes, the more dependent does the status 
of its white-collar employee become. That is the economic 
fundament upon which National Socialism rests. The middle 
classes, the peasants, and the white-collar employees want the 
economic situation which existed in pre-War days: a healthy 



32 MEIN KAMPF 

beings with less embarrassment than seems possible to the 
'upstarts/ 

For an upstart is anyone who, through his own energy, 
works his way up from his previous social position to a 
higher one. 

Finally, this relentless struggle kills all pity. One's own 
painful scramble for existence suffocates the feeling of sym- 
pathy for the misery of those left behind. 

In this respect Fate took pity on me. By forcing me back 
into this world of poverty and uncertainty, a world from 
which my father had emerged in the course of his own life, 
the blinders which a narrow bourgeois education had given 
me were cast off. It was only now that I learned to know 
man; I learned to distinguish between sham or the brutal 
appearance of human lives and their inner being. * 



At the turn of the century Vienna was already a city with 
unfavorable social conditions. 

Glamorous wealth and repulsive poverty were mixed in 
sharp contrast. In the heart of the city and in the inner dis- 
tricts, one could well feel the pulse of a realm of fifty-two 
million people, for all its doubtful charm, as a State of na- 
tionalities. Like a magnet, the Court with all its brilliant 

balance between big and little industry, and between agricul- 
ture and industry as a whole. Therefore they are against "High 
Capitalism" and "Marxism" alike. The second is held to en- 
courage competition through fostering the development of 
co-operatives, and accused, beyond that, of having helped the 
worker to climb the social ladder faster than the other classes 
an insupportable fact.' (Cf. Neue Blaetter fuer den Sozial- 
ismus, Vol. II, nr. 6.) The list of Nazis who fell during the 
putsch of 1923 is a striking demonstration of all this. It in- 
cludes intellectuals, white-collar employees, students and arti- 
sans, but no workers. And, of course, no 'capitalists.' 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 33 

splendor attracted the wealth and intelligence from the rest 
of the State. To this was added the strong centralizing 
policy of the Habsburg monarchy in itself. 

This offered the only possibility of keeping this porridge 
of nations together. The result, however, was a concentra- 
tion of the higher and highest authorities in the capital and 
Court city. 

But Vienna was not only politically and intellectually, 
but also economically, the center of the old Danubian mon- 
archy. The host of high officers, civil servants, artists and 
savants was confronted by a still greater number of workers; 
the wealth of aristocracy and commerce was contrasted with 
a dismal poverty. Thousands of unemployed loitered about 
in front of the palaces in the Ringstrasse, and below that 
via triumphalis of the old Austria, in the twilight and the 
mud of the canals, the homeless sought shelter. 

There was hardly any other German city where social 
questions could have been studied better than in Vienna. 
But we must not deceive ourselves. This * study ' cannot be 
carried out from above. Those who have never felt the grip 
of this murderous viper will never know its poisonous fangs. 
On the other hand, the result is nothing but a superficial 
babbling or hypocritical sentimentality. Both are equally 
evil. The first, because it never penetrates into the nucleus 
of the problem; the second, because it passes it by. I do not 
know which is worse: the ignoring of the social misery by 
the majority of the fortunate, or by those who have risen 
through their own efforts, as we see it daily, or the graciously 
patronizing attitudes of a certain part of the fashionable 
world (both in skirts and trousers) whose 4 sympathy for the 
people 1 is at times as haughty as it is obtrusive and tactless. 
These people do more harm than their brains, lacking in all 
instinct, are capable of imagining. Therefore they are as- 
tonished to find that the response to their helpful social 
'disposition' is always nil and frequently causes indignation 



34 MEIN KAMPF 

and antagonism ; this, of course, is taken to prove the peo- 
ple's ingratitude. 

These minds fail to see that social work has nothing to do 
with this: that above all it must not expect gratitude, since it 
should not deal out favors but restore rights. 

I was prevented from learning the social question in this 
fashion. Because I was drawn into the confines of its suffer- 
ing, it seemed to invite me not to 4 learn/ but rather to use 
me for experimentation. It was none of its doing that the 
guinea pig recovered from the operation. 



t If I were to try now to describe chronologically my vari- 
ous stages of feeling, I could never fully accomplish it; I 
wish to present only those impressions which seemed most 
important and frequently those most moving for me, to- 
gether with the few lessons they had given me then. 



In general, I did not find it very difficult to secure work, 
because I was not a skilled laborer, but only a handy man, 
and I had to earn my living by doing occasional work. 

I had the point of view of all those who wish to shake 
Europe's dust from their feet with the firm resolve to create 
a new existence in the new world, to conquer a new home- 
land. Severed from all the paralyzing conceptions of class 
and profession, of surrounding and tradition, they seize any 
opportunity which is offered, take any kind of work, and 
gradually they come to realize that honest work is no dis- 
grace no matter what it may be. So I, too, had resolved to 
jump with both feet into the new world and to fight my 
way through. 

I soon learned that there is always work to be found and 
that it is lost just as easily. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 35 

The uncertainty of earning one's daily bread seemed to 
me to be the darkest side of my new life. 

Of course the 'skilled' worker is not dismissed quite so 
frequently as the unskilled; but even he is not completely 
protected against such a fate. Instead of losing his income 
because of a shortage of work, he is confronted with a lock- 
out or a strike of his own choosing. 

Here the uncertainty of the daily income takes its most 
bitter revenge on the whole of economic life. 

The farmer's boy who comes to town, attracted by easier 
work, be it real or imaginary, by the shorter working hours, 
but most of all by the dazzling bright lights which the city 
sheds forth, is still accustomed to a certain security of in- 
come. He usually only gives up his job if there is at least 
another in sight. Finally, the shortage of farm hands is 
great and therefore the probability of long periods of un- 
employment is very slight. It is a mistake to assume that 
the young people who come to town are of inferior material 
to those who continue making their living by cultivating the 
soil. No, on the contrary: experience teaches that all migra- 
tory individuals consist of energetic and healthy elements 
rather than the reverse. But among those * immigrants' 
one counts not only the American immigrant, but also the 
young farmer boy who makes up his mind to leave his na- 
tive village to come to town. He, too, is ready to chance an 
uncertain destiny. Frequently he brings a little money 
with him to the big city so that he need not despair the very 
first day if he has had no luck in finding work for a pro- 
longed period of time. But the situation is more difficult 
when shortly thereafter he has to give up the job that he 
found. It is especially hard in winter, if not almost impossi- 
ble, to find a new home. The first few weeks may go well 
enough. He draws relief from the treasury of his union and 
he manages as best he can. But once he has spent his last 
cent and in consequence of his long period of unemployment 



36 MEIN KAMPF 

the treasury suspends its relief payments, then the distress 
becomes great. Now he loiters about hungrily, he pawns or 
sells the last of his belongings, his clothes get shabbier day 
by day, and he sinks into surroundings which, apart from 
the material misery he experiences, also poison his spirit. 
If then he becomes homeless, and if this happens (as is often 
the case) in winter, then his misery becomes acute. Finally 
he finds work of some kind. But the game repeats itself. 
He is hit the same way a second time, a third time perhaps 
more severely, so that by and by he learns to endure the un- 
certainty of life with indifference. Finally the repetition be- 
comes a habit. 

Thus the entire concept of life of a fellow who is other- 
wise industrious is demoralized and he is gradually trans- 
formed into a tool for those who use him for their own ends. 
He has been out of work so many times through no fault of 
his own that one time more or less no longer matters; it 
may be no longer a question of fighting for economic rights, 
but the destruction of political, social, or cultural values in 
general. Though he may not like strikes, he is probably in- 
different to them. 

I was able to observe this process with my own eyes in 
thousands of cases. The longer I observed the game, the 
more my aversion grew against the metropolis which so 
greedily sucked the people in only to destroy them. 

When they arrived, they still belonged to their people; 
if they remained, they were lost to them. 

I had been knocked about by my life in the metropolis in 
a similar manner and I was able to test the effect of such a 
fate on my own person and to experience it spiritually. I 
saw one thing more there: the rapid change from working 
to unemployment and vice versa; the repeated changes in 
income and expenditure destroyed in many people the de- 
sire for saving and the realization of a balanced mode of 
living. The body apparently becomes accustomed to good 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 37 

living in times of plenty and to going hungry in times of 
need. Even in times of better income, hunger often over- 
throws every resolve for a future balanced distribution, for, 
like a perpetual mirage, hunger conjures up before the eyes 
of its victim visions of a life of abundance and embellishes 
his dream until such a state of longing is achieved that it 
puts an end to all self-denial once earnings and income per- 
mit it. This is the reason why a laborer, as soon as he has 
found work, forgets to budget intelligently and becomes a 
spendthrift instead. This even leads to discarding the small 
household budget, because even here wise distribution is 
neglected; in the beginning there may be enough for five 
days out of seven, later only for three, finally hardly enough 
for one day, and at last the money is spent on the very first 
night. 

At home there are often wife and children. Sometimes 
they are drawn into this sort of life, especially if the man 
treats them well on the whole and loves them after a fashion. 
Then the weekly salary is spent jointly at home during the 
first two or three days; they eat and drink as long as there 
is some money left, and the remaining days of the week are 
spent in hunger. Then the wife sneaks away into the neigh- 
borhood and the surroundings, borrowing a little, making 
small debts at the grocer's so that the remaining lean days 
can be endured. At noon they are all gathered around 
meager dishes and sometimes there is nothing at all, and 
they await the next payday, talk of it and make plains, and 
while they are hungry, they already dream of the good 
fortune to come. 

So, from their earliest days, the young children become 
familiar with misery. 

But things end badly indeed when the man from the very 
start goes his own way and the wife, for the sake of her 
children, stands up against him. Quarreling and nagging 
set in, and in the same measure in which the husband be- 



38 MEIN KAMPF 

comes estranged from his wife, he becomes familiar with 
alcohol. Now he is drunk every Saturday, and in her in- 
stinct of self-preservation for herself and her children, the 
wife fights for the few pennies which she wangles from him, 
and frequently her sole opportunity is on his way from the 
factory to the saloon. When he finally comes home on Sun- 
day or Monday night, drunk and brutal, but always with- 
out a last cent and penny, then God have mercy on the 
scenes which follow. 

I witnessed all of this personally in hundreds of scenes 
and at the beginning with both disgust and indignation; 
but later I began to grasp the tragic side and to understand 
the deeper reasons for their misery. Unfortunate victims 
of poor social conditions. 

Almost sadder were the housing conditions in those days. 
The housing distress of the Viennese unskilled workers was 
dreadful. Even now I shudder when I think of those piti- 
ful dens, the shelters and lodging houses, those sinister 
pictures of dirt and repugnant filth, and worse still. 

How would it be, and how will it be, when one day there 
pours forth the mass of unleashed slaves out of these mis- 
erable dens, overflowing the other so thoughtless fellow 
creatures and contemporaries! 

For this other world is thoughtless. 

Thoughtlessly it allows things to go as they will with- 
out foreseeing, in their lack of intuition, that sooner or 
later Fate will take its revenge if Fate is not reconciled in 
time. 

How grateful I am today to Providence which bade me 
go to this school ! There I could not sabotage what I dis- 
liked. It educated me quickly and thoroughly. 

If I were not to despair of the people of my surroundings, 
I had to learn to distinguish between their external ap- 
pearance and manners and the origins of their develop- 
ment. This was the only way possible to bear all this 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 39 

without despairing. What grew out of this unhappiness 
and misery, of this filth and external decay, were no longer 
human beings, but the deplorable results of deplorable 
laws; however, the pressure of my own hard and no less 
easy struggle for life prevented me from capitulating in 
miserable sentimentality before the final results of this 
process of development. 

No, it must not be interpreted like that. &lt; 

I saw then that only a twofold way could lead to the 
goal for the improvement of these conditions: 

A deep feeling of social responsibility towards the estab- 
lishment of better foundations for our development, combined 
with the ruthless resolution to destroy the incurable social 
tumors. 

Just as Nature concentrates, not on safeguarding that 
which exists, but on breeding the coming generation as the 
representative of the species, so in human life it is less a 
question of artificially cultivating the existing evils which, 
human nature being what it is, would be ninety-nine per 
cent impossible, but rather to assure healthier paths for 
future development from the start. 

Already during my struggle for life in Vienna, it had 
become clear to me that : 

Social activity must never see its task in the sentimental 
conception of welfare work which is as ridiculous as it is 
futile, but rather in the abolition of those fundamental defects 
in the organization of our economic and cultural life which 
must lead to, or at least encourage, the degradation of the 
individual. 

The difficulty of applying the most extreme and brutal 
means against the criminality endangering the State is to 
be found, above all, in the prevailing uncertainty concern- 
ing the inner motives or causes of the symptoms of our 
time. 

This uncertainty is only too deeply rooted in one's own 



40 MEIN KAMPF 

feeling of being guilty of such tragedies of demoralization; 
it paralyzes every sincere and firm decision, thus adding 
to the wavering and half-heartedness with which even the 
most urgent measures of self-preservation are applied. 

Only when the time comes when a race is no longer over- 
shadowed by the consciousness of its own guilt, then it 
will find internal peace and external strength to cut down 
regardlessly and brutally the wild shoots, and to pull up 
the weeds. 



These pages indicate a possible debt to Karl Freiherr von 
Vogelsang, one of the founders of the Christian Social Move- 
ment in Austria, and one of the editors of the journal Vaterland. 
A conservative nobleman of Prussian ancestry, he had been 
received into the Catholic Church by Bishop Emanuel von 
Ketteler, the first German Catholic apostle of social reform, 
and had then migrated to Vienna. His group taught that the 
rights of all take precedence over the rights of the few (which 
Hitler phrases, Gemeinnutz geht vor Eigennutz), demanded leg- 
islation to protect the worker against exploitation (a precept 
developed later on by Franz Hitze and others in Germany into 
a code of labor protection laws), and sponsored a type of eco- 
nomic organization akin in some ways to the kind of 'corpo- 
rative society' endorsed in the Papal Encyclical, Quadragesima 
Anno (i.e., not the 'corporative state* of Italian Fascism). Of 
especial concern to Vogelsang were the moral consequences of 
the liberalistic economy intemperance, improvidence, etc. 
He also attacked the taking of interest and the grip on industry 
exercised by the 'money lenders/ (Cf. the biography of Vogel- 
sang by Wiard Klopp, Vienna, 1930.) A more modern and very 
much more radical statement of the same views can be found 
in Economia Perennis, by Anton Orel (Graz, 1928). It seems 
probable that Hitler saturated himself at one time with Vater- 
land editorials, which afford interesting parallels to what he 
writes here. But he subordinates the Vogelsang teaching to hifc 
own chauvinistic Pan-German outlook. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 41 

Since the Austrian State hardly knew social justice and 
social laws, its weakness in fighting even the worst excres- 
cences was glaringly obvious. 



I do not know what shocked me more at that time: the 
economic distress of my erstwhile comrades, their ethical 
and moral crudity, or the low level of their spiritual de- 
velopment. 

Does not our bourgeoisie rise in moral indignation when 
it hears from the lips of some miserable tramp that he 
doesn't care whether he is German or not, that he feels at 
home anywhere, as long as he has enough to live on? 

This lack of 'national pride* is deeply deplored and the 
horror at such an attitude is expressed in strong terms. 

But how many people ask themselves the question, what 
in their own case was the reason for their own better way 
of thinking? 

How many are there who understand the numerous 
memories of the greatness of the fatherland, of the nation, 
in all fields of cultural and artistic endeavor which, when 
summoned up, justify their pride in being privileged to 
belong to such a blessed nation? 

How many know how dependent their pride in their 
country is upon their knowledge of its greatness in all these 
domains? 

f Does our bourgeoisie realize to what a ridiculously small 
extent this assumption of pride in the fatherland is trans- 
mitted to the 'people'? 

We cannot excuse ourselves by saying ' it is not different 
in the other countries'; that 'in spite of this' the workers 
there stand up for their nationality. Even if this were so, 
it could not serve as the excuse of our own negligence. But 
it is not so. What we always term 'chauvinistic' education, 
that of the French nation, for example, is nothing but the 



42 MEIN KAMPF 

stress upon France's greatness in all fields of culture or, 
as the French say, 'civilization.' The young Frenchman 
is not educated with an objective, but a subjective, point 
of view, which we can only understand as far as the politi- 
cal or cultural greatness of his country is concerned. 

This education should be limited to general and im- 
portant points of view, which, if necessary, should be im- 
pressed on the minds and feelings of the people by constant 
repetition. 

But to our negative sin of omission, we add the positive 
sin of destroying the little the individual is lucky enough 
to learn in school. The rats of the political poisoning of 
our nation gnaw away the little that is left in the hearts 
and the memories of the masses, if misery and distress have 
not already done so. 

Now let us imagine the following: 

In a basement apartment of two stuffy rooms lives a 
worker's family of seven people. Among the five children 
there is a boy, let us say, of three. This is the age at which 
a child becomes conscious of his first impressions. In 
many intelligent people, traces of these early memories 
are found even in old age. The smallness and the over- 
crowding of the rooms do not create favorable conditions. 
Quarreling and nagging often arise because of this. In such 
circumstances people do not live with one another, but on 
top of one another. Every argument, even the most un- 
important, which in a larger apartment would take care 
of itself for the reason that one could step aside, leads to 
a never-ending, disgusting quarrel. Among the children 
this does not usually matter; they often quarrel under such 
circumstances and forget completely and quickly. But 
when the parents fight almost daily, their brutality leaves 
nothing to the imagination; then the results of such visual 
education must slowly but inevitably become apparent in 
the little ones. Those who are not familiar with such con* 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 



43 



ditions can hardly imagine the results, especially when the 
mutual differences express themselves in the form of brutal 
attacks on the part of the father towards the mother or to 
assaults due to drunkenness. The poor little boy, at the 
age of six, senses things which would make even a grown-up 
person shudder. Morally infected, undernourished, his poor 
little head covered with lice, the young 'citizen* wanders 
off to the elementary school. He may learn to read and to 
write only with the greatest difficulty, and nothing more. 
Learning at home is out of the question. On the contrary. 
In front of the children, father and mother often speak 
about school and the teachers in a manner one cannot pos- 
sibly repeat, and are inclined 
them ; instead of placing the 
spanking some sense into 
The other things the litt 
tend to further his r 
single good shred is left 
tution is left unattacked ; 
the head of the State, be 
be it the State or society, 
abused, everything is pulled 
into the filth of a depraved 
of fourteen, the young lad is dismissed from school, it is 
difficult to say which is worse: his unbelievable ignorance 
as far as knowledge and ability are concerned, or the biting 
impudence of his behavior, combined with an immorality 
which makes one's hair stand on end, considering his 
age. 

But what place in society will the young man for 
almost nothing is sacred to him ; having learned nothing of 
greatness, he but guesses and knows all the meanness of 
life now take when he enters into life? 

The three-year-old child has now become a youth of fif- 
teen who despises all authority. Familiar with nothing 




things about 
knee and 
them. 
do not 
Not a 
insti- 
up to 
such, 
ing is 
manner 
at the age 



44 MEIN KAMPF 

other than dirt and filth, the young fellow knows nothing 
that could rouse his enthusiasm for higher things. 

But now for the first time he enters the high school of 
life. 

Now the same mode of living, which he learned from 
his father during childhood, begins. Now he loiters about, 
and God only knows when he comes home; for a change 
he may even beat the poor creature who was once his 
mother, curses God and the world, and finally, for some 
reason or other, he is sentenced to a reformatory. 

There he receives the final polish. 

But his dear bourgeois fellow men are truly astonished 
at the lack of 'national' enthusiasm in this young 'citizen.' 

They see how theaters and movies, worthless literature 
and tabloid newspapers pour poison into the masses by the 
bucketful, and are surprised by their low 'morality,' their 
national 'indifference.' As though movie sentimentality, 
tabloid newspapers, and similar rubbish could lay the 
foundation for a realization of national greatness! To say 
nothing of the previous education of the individual. 

What I had never guessed before, I learned to under- 
stand now: quickly and thoroughly. 

The question of the ' nationalization f of a people is first of 
all a question of creating sound social conditions as the funda- 
mental possibility for educating the individual. For only 
those who, through education and schooling, get to know the 
cultural and economic, and above all the political, greatness 
of their own country, can and will be proud of being allowed 
to call themselves members of this nation. Moreover, I can 
only fight for what I love; only love what I can respect; only 
respect what I know. 



Now that my interest for the social question was awak- 
ened, I began to study it in all thoroughness. It was a 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 45 

new and hitherto unknown world which opened itself 
before my eyes. 

In 1909-10 my own situation had changed somewhat, 
as I no longer had to earn my daily bread as an unskilled 
worker. I worked independently as a modest draftsman 
and painter of aquarelles. Though this was bitter as far 
as my earnings were concerned it was really barely 
enough for a living it was good for the career I had 
chosen. Now I was no longer dead tired as formerly when 
coming home from my work in the evening, unable to 
open a book without falling asleep after a short time. 
The work I was doing went hand in hand with my future 
profession. I was also master of my own time and I was 
able to arrange it better than before. 

I painted in order to earn a living and I learned for 
enjoyment. 

Thus I was enabled to supplement my practical ex- 
periences concerning social problems with the necessary 
theory. I studied almost every book on the subject I 
could get hold of, and for the rest I was steeped in thoughts 
of my own. 

I believe that those who knew me then must have thought 
me a queer fellow. 

But with all this it was natural that I devoted myself 
enthusiastically to my passion for architecture. Along with 
music, architecture appeared to me to be the queen of 
the arts: under such circumstances my occupation with it 
was not 'work,' but the greatest happiness. I was able to 
read or draw late into the night; I was never tired. Thus 
my belief, that my beautiful dream of the future would 
become reality, perhaps only after many years, was 
strengthened. I was firmly convinced that some day I 
would make a name as an architect. 

1 did not place much importance on the fact that in 
addition I took the greatest interest in everything con- 



46 MEIN KAMPF 

nected with politics. On the contrary; to me this was the 
natural duty of every thinking human being anyway. He 
who had no understanding for this simply had no right to 
criticize or to complain, 
t Here, too, I also read and learned a lot. 

But by 'reading* I may possibly mean something entirely 
different from the great average of our so-called 'intelli- 
gentsia/ 

I know people who endlessly 'read' a lot, book after 
book, letter for letter, yet I would not call them 'well 
read.' Of course, they possess a wide 'knowledge,' but 
their intellect does not know how to distribute and register 
the material gathered. They lack the ability to distinguish 
in a book that which is of value and that which is of no 
value to them; to keep the one in mind forever, and to 



Hitler was never more candid than in these pages, which 
must not be read, however, as a mere defense against the charge 
of ignorance. The educational program of National Socialism 
is based upon the theory that too much reading, too much fa- 
miliarity with different points of view, fosters criticism, and 
therewith disrupts the unity with which the nation must face 
the problem of war. Hitler's declaration that he read in order 
to fortify ideas he already held is, whether true in fact or not 
(the point has been raised by various biographers), highly im- 
portant because it happens to coincide with a trend in Ger- 
man pedagogical thought which, related in a sense to Plato and 
Fichte, has led to the 'Spartan ' ideal now dominant in German 
higher education and handed down thence to the elementary 
school. Aurel Kolnai, in his War against the West, summarizes 
the ideas of one spokesman for that trend Professor Alfred 
Baeumler, latterly Nazi appointee to the University of Berlin : 
'We set ourselves the task of breeding types, not "individuali- 
ties." To the ideal of universality (many-sidedness) we oppose 
efficient and disciplined unity; to harmony, force; to refinement, 
greatness and simplicity; to complicated inwardness, an atti- 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 47 

overlook, if possible, the other, instead of carrying it with 
them as so much unnecessary ballast. Reading, further- 
more, is not a purpose in itself, but a means to an end. 
It should serve, first of all, to fill in the frame which Is 
formed by the talents and abilities of the individual; 
thus reading has to furnish the tools and the building 
material which the individual needs for his profession, no 
matter whether it serves only the primitive purpose of 
making a living or whether it presents a higher vocation; 
secondly, reading has to give a general picture of the world. 
In both cases it is necessary that the content of what 
has been read is registered in the mind, not according 
to the sequence in the book, or according to the sequence 
in which the books are read, but that, like the small pieces 
of a mosaic, it is put into the place where it belongs, thus 

tude of steadfastness. The utmost dignity is accorded to bodily 
training, not for reasons of health, but as a direct expression of 
the preferred "mode of life." . . . Amidst a culture that has be- 
come too inward, too spiritual, athletics restore the principle 
of "visibleness." Our conditions of life must be simplified; we 
shall have to resort to the elemental forces in our people. 9 

Concerning Hitler's own intellectual equipment, the follow- 
ing objective statement made by Professor Hans E. Friedrich in 
1931 seems readable and interesting today: 'He is an orator, an 
organizer, a practical psychologist; and in addition he possesses 
physical courage, is unusually able to tap his own enthusiasm, 
and has a fund of glowing personal emotions. But in order to 
become a leader in the sense that Pericles and Napoleon were 
leaders, he would have to overcome his lack of that which gives 
a man in supreme command personal confidence in himself 
calmness of analysis (above all where he himself is concerned), 
hardness to the point of rigor, ability to face decisions of im- 
portance with an absolutely open mind, unemotional serious- 
ness in the act of looking things over, and that measure of inner 
objectivity that gives a man independence and stubborn per* 



48 MEIN KAMPF 

helping to complete the general picture of the world in 
the mind of the reader. Otherwise, the result will be a 
terrible muddle of things learned, and this is not only 
of little value, but it also makes its unfortunate possessor 
presumptuous and vain. For now he thinks in all sincerity 
that he is 'educated'; he thinks he knows life and has 
knowledge; whereas in reality, with each new contribu- 
tion to this 'education,' he is more and more estranged 
from the world, till frequently he ends in a sanatorium, 
or as a 'politician* in parliament. 

Such a person will never succeed in finding, in an hour 
of need, the right thing in the medley of his 'knowledge,' 
as his mental ballast is not arranged according to the 
course of life, but in the order in which he has read the 
books and in which their contents are arranged in his 
mind. If Fate in his daily demands of life were always 
to remind him of the right use of that which he has once 
read, then it would also have to remind him of each book 
and the page number or else the poor devil in all eternity 
would never find the right thing. But since it does not 
do this, these extraordinarily wise men are terribly em- 
barrassed at critical moments and seek frantically for 
analogies, and then, of course, they are dead certain to 
chance upon the wrong recipe. 

If this were not so, we should not be able to understand 
the political achievements of our learned heroes in the 
highest government positions, unless we decided that they 

sistence. In addition Hitler seems to lack that elementary 
knowledge of economic and political situations and of history 
which a leader must have at his command, though he need not 
drag about with him a ballast of information.' (Cf. Die christ- 
Kche Well, Vol. XLV, nr. 9.) 

The practical consequences of Hitler's attitude towards edu- 
cation will be discussed later on. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 49 

had pathological inclinations instead of infamous villainy. 

When studying a book, a magazine, or a pamphlet, those 
who master this art of reading will immediately pick out 
that which in their opinion is suitable for them because 
it serves their purposes or is generally worth knowing 
and therefore to be remembered forever. As soon as the 
knowledge so gained finds its due place in the one or the 
other existing picture of this or that thing which imagina- 
tion has created, it will act as a corrective or as a supple- 
ment, thus enhancing its truth or its clarity. When life 
suddenly presents some question to be examined or an- 
swered, then this manner of reading will immediately take 
the already existing picture as a standard, and from it it 
will take all the single contributions to this question which 
have been collected during past decades, and submit them 
to the intellect for examination and reconsideration till the 
question is clarified or answered. 

It is only in this fashion that reading is of use and has 
meaning. 

A public speaker, for instance, who does not in this way 
supply his intelligence with the necessary support will 
never, in case of contradiction, be able to present his 
opinion convincingly, no matter whether it may correspond 
a thousand times to truth or reality. His memory will 
shamefully desert him in all discussions; he will neither 
find supporting arguments for his contentions, nor will he 
find such with which to confound his adversary. This 
may be all very well if it only concerns a public speaker 
and only his own personal reputation is involved, but things 
take a bad turn when Fate appoints such a 'know-it-all/ 
who is really a know-nothing, the head of a State. 

From my early youth I took pains to read in the right 
manner, and in this I was happily assisted by my memory 
and intellect. And in this light the time I spent in Vienna 
was especially fruitful and useful. The experiences of 



50 MEIN KAMPF 

everyday life gave me the stimulus for my renewed study 
of various problems. As I was thus finally enabled to sub* 
stantiate theory with reality, to examine theory in its re- 
lation to reality. I was spared being suffocated in theories 
and from becoming shallow through reality. 

Apart from the social problem, two other very important 
questions were also experienced in daily life, decisive and 
stimulating for a thorough theoretical study. 

Who knows when I might have plunged into studying 
the doctrines and ideas of Marxism if that period had not 
virtually pushed my nose into this problem ! 



What I knew of Social Democracy during my youth was 
precious little and mostly wrong. 

I was secretly glad to know that it fought for general 
suffrage and the secret ballot. My reason already told me 
that this would lead to the weakening of the Habsburg 
regime which I hated so much. In the conviction that the 
State on the Danube could never be preserved unless the 
German nationality was sacrificed, and that even paying 
the price of the gradual Slavicizing of the German element 

Faithful to its internationalist program, Socialism made 
every effort to organize Slav and German workers in a common 
front. When after the War a constitutional assembly convened 
in Austria, Viktor Adler declared: 'We extend fraternal greet- 
ings to our Slavic and Romanic brethren, and are ready to 
unite with the peoples that are our neighbors in a free federa- 
tion, if they so desire. Otherwise German Austria will be com- 
pelled to join Germany as a specially constituted state inside 
the German federation of states/ The position of the small 
Austrian National Socialist Party at that time was: it imme- 
diately repudiated every thought of a common association with 
the peoples comprising the old Habsburg Empire, and de- 
manded union with Germany. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 51 

would in no way have guaranteed the survival of the State, 
as it was doubtful if the Slavic nationality could have ac- 
complished this, I therefore welcomed every development 
which in my opinion would lead to the breakdown of the 
State which had pronounced the death sentence on ten mil- 
lion German people. The more the linguistic tohuwabohu 
[Hebrew Genesis 1:2 meaning chaos, confusion, 
hubbub] ate into and tore at the parliament, the sooner 
would come the hour of doom of this Babylonian realm, 
and with it, the day of freedom for my German-Austrian 
people. Only in this way could the Anschluss with the 
old motherland be achieved. 

I rather liked the activity of Social Democracy. The 
fact that it finally endeavored to raise the standard of living 
of the working class in those days my innocent mind was 
foolish enough to believe this seemed to speak rather in 
its favor than against it. But what disgusted me most was 
its hostile attitude towards the fight for the preservation 
of the German nationality, its pitiful courtship of the Slav 
* comrades,' who readily accepted this wooing as long as it 
meant practical allowances, but were otherwise arrogantly 
aloof, thus paying the intruding beggars the wages they 
deserved. 

At the age of seventeen I had rarely heard the word 
'Marxism,' whereas 'Social Democracy* and 'Socialism 1 
were identical ideas to me. Here, too, the hand of Fate 
had to open my eyes to this unprecedented betrayal of the 
people. 

Till then I had known the Social Democratic Party only 
from a spectator's point of view, on the occasion of various 
mass demonstrations, without having the slightest insight 
into the mentality of its followers or the meaning of its 
doctrine; but now I suddenly came into contact with the 
products of its education and view of life; I now achieved 
in a few months what otherwise might have taken decades: 



52 MEIN KAMPF 

the realization that it was a pestilential whore covered 
with the mask of social virtue and brotherly love, and that 
mankind must rid the world of her as soon as possible, or 
otherwise the world might easily be rid of mankind. 

While I was employed as a building worker, my first 
encounter with Social Democracy took place. 

It was not a very enjoyable experience from the begin- 
ning. My clothes were still in good shape, my language was 
refined, and my manners reserved. I still was so preoc- 
cupied with my own affairs that I did not bother much 
with my surroundings. I looked for work to prevent me 
from starving, thus hoping to find the possibility for further 
training, however slow it might be. Perhaps I would not 
have troubled about my new surroundings at all if some- 
thing had not happened on the third or fourth day which 
forced me to take a stand. I was asked to join the or- 
ganization. 

My knowledge of unions was nil at that time. I would 
not have been able to prove the suitability or the useless- 
ness of their existence. When I was told that I had to join, 
I refused. I gave as my reason that I did not understand 
the whole affair and that, on the whole, I would not let 
myself be forced into anything. The first was perhaps the 
reason why I was not thrown out immediately. Perhaps 
they hoped that in a few days I would be converted or 
would give in. In any event, they were thoroughly mis- 
taken. After two weeks 1 was not allowed to wait any 
longer, even if I had wanted to. During these two weeks I 
had become better acquainted with my surroundings, so 
that no power on earth could have induced me to join an 
organization whose representatives had meanwhile shown 
themselves in so unfavorable a light. 

The first few days I was annoyed. 

At noon some of the men went into the nearest public 
houses, while others remained on the spot where they in 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 53 

most cases ate a very frugal meal. These were the married 
ones whose wives brought them their noonday soup in 
battered dishes. Their number grew steadily towards the 
end of the week; why, I knew only later. Now politics were 
discussed. 

I drank my bottle of milk and ate my piece of bread 
somewhere on the side, cautiously studying my new sur- 
roundings or pondering over my miserable fate. Yet I 
heard more than enough ; also, more than once it seemed to 
me as if they approached me intentionally in order to draw 
me out. In any case, what I heard served to annoy me 
extremely. Everything was rejected: the nation as an in- 
vention of the 'capitalistic' classes how often was I to 
hear just this word! ; the country as the instrument of 
the bourgeoisie for the exploitation of the workers; the 
authority of the law as a means of suppressing the prole- 
tariat; the school as an institution for bringing up slaves 
as well as slave drivers; religion as a means for doping the 
people destined for exploitation; morality as a sign of 
sheepish patience, and so forth. Nothing remained that 
was not dragged down into the dirt and the filth of the 
lowest depths. 

In the beginning I tried to keep silent. But finally I 
could hold back no longer. I began to take part and to 
contradict. But soon I realized that this was entirely hope- 
less as long as I did not possess at least a certain knowledge 
of the subjects under argument. Thus I began to look into 
the sources from which the others drew their so-called wis- 
dom. I studied book after book, pamphlet after pamphlet. 

On the job the arguments often became heated. Being 
daily better informed about their knowledge than my ad- 
versaries themselves, I argued till finally one day they 
applied the one means that wins the easiest victory over 
reason : terror and force. Some of the leaders of the other 
side gave me the choice of either leaving the job at once 



54 MEIN KAMPF 

or of being thrown from the scaffold. As I was alone and 
resistance seemed hopeless, I preferred to follow the 
former, enriched by a new experience. 

I went away, disgusted, but at the same time I was so 
stirred that it would have been impossible for me to turn 
my back on the whole affair. No; after my first indignation 
had passed, my stubbornness gained the upper hand. I 
firmly resolved to return to another construction job. This 
decision was encouraged by Poverty, who, after I had eaten 
up my small savings in the course of a few weeks, clasped 
me in her unfeeling arms. Now I had to, whether I wanted 
to or not. The game began again from the beginning, only 
to end in a similar way as it had the first time. 

My mind was tormented by the question: Are these still 
human beings, worthy of being part of a great nation? 

A torturing question it was; if answered in the affirma- 
tive, then the fight for a nation is no longer worth the 
trouble and the sacrifices which the better ones have to 
make for such outcasts; if the answer is in the negative, 
then our nation is poor in human beings. 

During these days of pondering and reflection I watched 
with uneasiness the mass of those who could no longer be 
counted as belonging to the nation grow into a threatening 
legion. 

How different were my feelings when one day I stared 
at the endless columns of a mass demonstration of Viennese 
workers, marching by in rows of four! For nearly two hours 
I stood there and watched with bated breath this terrible 
human dragon creeping slowly along. Depressed and 
anxious I left the square and walked home. On my way I 
saw in a tobacco shop a copy of the Arbeiterzeitung, the 
mouthpiece of the old Austrian Social Democracy. It was 
also available in a cheap coffee shop where I sometimes 
used to go to read the newspapers; but so far I had not 
been able to bring myself to look at this wretched paper 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 55 

for more than two minutes, for the effect of its language 
on me was like that of spiritual vitriol. Under the de- 
pressing influence of the demonstration, an inner voice 
now urged me to buy the paper for once and to read it 
thoroughly. I did this in the evening, though I sometimes 
had to fight down the rage rising in me because of this 
concentrated solution of lies. 

The daily reading of the Social Democratic newspapers 
enabled me better to study the inner meaning of these 
ideas than all of the theoretic literature put together. 

What a difference between the phrases about liberty, 
beauty, and dignity, the delusive swaggering which at- 
tempted to express the deepest wisdom, the disgusting and 
humane morality everything was written with an iron- 
faced prophetic certainty contained in the theoretic 
literature and this doctrine of salvation of a new mankind 
in a daily press which did not shrink from any baseness 
whatsoever, and which operated with the most brutal 
forces of calumny and a virtuosity for lying that was out- 
rageous! The one is intended for the innocent simpletons 
of the middle, and, of course, the upper, classes of the 
4 intelligentsia ' ; the other for the masses. 

For me the concentration on the literature and press of 
this organization and its doctrine was my return to my 
people. 

What I first had looked upon as an impassable chasm 
now spurred me on to a greater love for my country than 
ever before. 

Aware of the terrible workings of this poison, only a fool 
would condemn the victim. The more independent I be- 
came in the following years, the greater the distance, the 
wider were my eyes opened to the inner causes of the 
Social Democratic successes. Now I understood the brutal 
demand to subscribe only to red newspapers, to attend 
only red meetings, to read only red books, and so on. My 



56 MEIN KAMPF 

eyes saw with plastic clarity the enforced result of this 
doctrine of intolerance. *? 

The psyche of the great masses is not receptive to half 
measures or weakness. 

Like a woman, whose psychic feeling is influenced less 
by abstract reasoning than by an undefinable, sentimental 
longing for complementary strength, who will submit to 
the strong man rather than dominate the weakling, thus 
the masses love the ruler rather than the suppliant, and 
inwardly they are far more satisfied by a doctrine which 
tolerates no rival than by the grant of liberal freedom ; they 
often feel at a loss what to do with it, and even easily feel 
themselves deserted. They neither realize the impudence 
with which they are spiritually terrorized, nor the out- 
rageous curtailment of their human liberties, for in no way 
does the delusion of this doctrine dawn on them. Thus 
they see only the inconsiderate force, the brutality and 
the aim of its manifestations to which they finally always 
submit. 

// Social Democracy is confronted by a doctrine of greater 
truthfulness, carried out with the same brutality, then the 
latter will be victorious, though the struggle may be hard. 

Before two years had elapsed, the doctrine and the 
technical tools of Social Democracy had become clear to me. 

I understood the infamous mental terror which this 
movement exercised on the population which could neither 
morally nor psychically resist such attacks; Social De- 
mocracy, at a given signal, directs a bombardment of lies 

This statement is of cardinal importance, so that an analysis 
of the underlying thought development is suggested. Hitler, 
conscious of belonging to a higher social caste than his fellow- 
workers after all, his father had spent a lifetime struggling 
to rise instinctively retreats from the idea of accepting 
solidarity with them. They persist in their proselyting efforts. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 57 

and calumnies towards the adversary who seemed most 
dangerous, till finally the nerves of those who had been 
attacked give out and they, for the sake of peace, bow down 
to the hated enemy. 

But the fools will not find peace after all. 

The play begins again and is so often repeated till the 
fear of the mad dog paralyzes them by suggestion. 

As Social Democracy knows, from its own experience, 
the value of strength, it assaults mostly those in whom it 
scents a trace of that rare material. On the other hand, 
it praises every weakling of the other side, sometimes cau- 
tiously, sometimes more boldly, according to the mental 
qualities they appreciate or suspect. 

It is less afraid of a powerless, irresolute genius than of 
a strong man of even moderate intelligence. 

Most of all it recommends those who are weaklings in 
mind and power. 

It knows how to create the appearance as though this 
were the only way in which peace could be maintained; 
yet relentlessly it conquers one position after another, 



An argument ensues; and appalled by their revolutionary 
attitudes, he loses his temper. There is a fight. Afterward 
he can only think bitterly of how these large groups of Germans 
are being weaned away from ardent zeal for the expansion of 
the German nation and made, by persistent regimentation 
and propaganda, to accept the creed of international class 
warfare. The trend could not, he decided, be halted with 
reasoning or evidence. Only a group still more disciplined, 
still more ruthless in its methods, would after a bitter struggle 
be able to suppress such a movement. These early reflections 
colored his later conduct. The Social Democracy of post-War 
years in Germany was not revolutionary but reformist. It 
was actuated by a deep and intelligent patriotism. But he 
refused to concede that his Vienna impressions needed revision. 



56 MEIN KAMPF 

eyes saw with plastic clarity the enforced result of this 
doctrine of intolerance, &lt; 

The psyche of the great masses is not receptive to half 
measures or weakness. 

Like a woman, whose psychic feeling is influenced less 
by abstract reasoning than by an undefinable, sentimental 
longing for complementary strength, who will submit to 
the strong man rather than dominate the weakling, thus 
the masses love the ruler rather than the suppliant, and 
inwardly they are far more satisfied by a doctrine which 
tolerates no rival than by the grant of liberal freedom ; they 
often feel at a loss what to do with it, and even easily feel 
themselves deserted. They neither realize the impudence 
with which they are spiritually terrorized, nor the out- 
rageous curtailment of their human liberties, for in no way 
does the delusion of this doctrine dawn on them. Thus 
they see only the inconsiderate force, the brutality and 
the aim of its manifestations to which they finally always 
submit. 

// Social Democracy is confronted by a doctrine of greater 
truthfulness, carried out with the same brutality, then the 
latter will be victorious, though the struggle may be hard. 

Before two years had elapsed, the doctrine and the 
technical tools of Social Democracy had become clear to me. 

I understood the infamous mental terror which this 
movement exercised on the population which could neither 
morally nor psychically resist such attacks; Social De- 
mocracy, at a given signal, directs a bombardment of lies 

This statement is of cardinal importance, so that an analysis 
of the underlying thought development is suggested. Hitler, 
conscious of belonging to a higher social caste than his fellow- 
workers after all, his father had spent a lifetime struggling 
to rise instinctively retreats from the idea of accepting 
solidarity with them. They persist in their proselyting efforts. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 57 

and calumnies towards the adversary who seemed most 
dangerous, till finally the nerves of those who had been 
attacked give out and they, for the sake of peace, bow down 
to the hated enemy. 

But the fools will not find peace after all. 

The play begins again and is so often repeated till the 
fear of the mad dog paralyzes them by suggestion. 

As Social Democracy knows, from its own experience, 
the value of strength, it assaults mostly those in whom it 
scents a trace of that rare material. On the other hand, 
it praises every weakling of the other side, sometimes cau- 
tiously, sometimes more boldly, according to the mental 
qualities they appreciate or suspect. 

It is less afraid of a powerless, irresolute genius than of 
a strong man of even moderate intelligence. 

Most of all it recommends those who are weaklings in 
mind and power. 

It knows how to create the appearance as though this 
were the only way in which peace could be maintained; 
yet relentlessly it conquers one position after another, 



An argument ensues; and appalled by their revolutionary 
attitudes, he loses his temper. There is a fight. Afterward 
he can only think bitterly of how these large groups of Germans 
are being weaned away from ardent zeal for the expansion of 
the German nation and made, by persistent regimentation 
and propaganda, to accept the creed of international class 
warfare. The trend could not, he decided, be halted with 
reasoning or evidence. Only a group still more disciplined, 
still more ruthless in its methods, would after a bitter struggle 
be able to suppress such a movement. These early reflections 
colored his later conduct. The Social Democracy of post- War 
yeans in Germany was not revolutionary but reformist. It 
was actuated by a deep and intelligent patriotism. But he 
refused to concede that his Vienna impressions needed revision. 



58 MEIN KAMPF 

either by quiet pressure or by downright robbery at mo- 
ments when public attention is occupied with other things 
and does not wish to be disturbed or because it considers 
the affair too trifling to be dealt with and does not wish to 
provoke the adversary anew. 

These tactics are based on an exact calculation of all 
human weaknesses; their result must lead to success with 
almost mathematical certainty, unless the other side also 
learns to fight poison gas with poison gas. 

Weak natures have to be told that it simply means 'to 
be or not to be/ 

The importance of physical terror against the individual 
and the masses also became clear to me. 

Here, too, we find exact calculation of the psychological 
effect. 

The terror in the workshops, in the factory, in the assembly 
hall, and on occasion of mass demonstrations will always be 
accompanied by success as long as it is not met by an equally 
great force of terror. 

Then, of course, the party will cry havoc; scornful of 
State authority it will now call for it, so that in most cases 
and in the general disorder, it will reach the goal that is, 
it will find some idiot of a higher official who, in the stupid 
hope of in this way gaining, for the future, perhaps the 
favor of the dreaded enemy, helps to break the adversary 
of this universal plague. 

Only those who know the soul of a people, not from 
books but from life, can understand the impression such 
success makes on the sensibilities of the masses of adherents 
and adversaries as well. While in the ranks of their ad- 
herents the victory gained is looked upon as the triumph 
of the right in its own cause, the beaten adversary in most 
cases despairs entirely of the success of all further re- 
sistance. 

The closer I became acquainted with the methods of 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 59 

physical terror, the more I asked for forgiveness from those 
hundreds of thousands who succumb to it. 

I owe most of all to that period of suffering that it alone 
has given my people back to me, that I learned to dis- 
tinguish between victims and seducers. 

The results of these seductions cannot be called anything 
other than victims. For if I now were to try to draw from 
life the existence of these 'lowest 1 classes, the picture 
would not be complete without the assurance that in these 
depths I would also find light in the shape of a rare willing- 
ness to make sacrifices, a faithful comradeship, extreme 
contentedness, and reserved modesty, especially among the 
older generation of the working class. Though these virtues 
were lost more and more to the younger generation, espe- 
cially under the general influence of the big city, yet there 
were many whose sound and healthy blood mastered the 
mean baseness of life. If nevertheless these good-natured, 
plucky people, in their political activity entered the ranks 
of the deadliest enemy of our nationality, thus helping to 
close them up, the fault was that they did not and could 
not understand the baseness of the new doctrine, that no- 
body else took the trouble to look after them, and that 
finally social conditions were perhaps stronger than all the 
mutual will power present. The poverty into which they 
would fall sooner or later drove them finally into the camp 
of Social Democracy. 

As innumerable times the bourgeoisie, in the most stupid, 
but also the most immoral, manner turned against claims 
which were generally and humanly justified, without obtaining 
any advantages for themselves or expecting any, even the most 
decent worker was driven from trade unionism into political 
activity. 

t Millions of workers were certainly inwardly enemies of 
the Social Democratic Party at the beginning, but their 
resistance was overcome in a sometimes idiotic way and 



60 MEIN KAMPF 

manner, because the parties of the bourgeoisie turned 
against all social demands. They foolishly suppressed all 
attempts to improve working conditions, safety devices on 
machines, abolition of child labor, and protection of the 
woman at least during those months when she carries 
under her heart the future fellow citizen, thus helping 
Social Democracy, which gratefully took up every such 
deplorable manifestation to drive the masses into its nets. 
Never can our political bourgeoisie repair the damage it 
has done. By its resistance to all attempts to remedy 
social abuses, it sowed seeds of hatred and condoned the 
claims of the arch-enemies of the entire nationality, that 
the Social Democratic Party alone represented the interests 
of the working classes. 

Thus it created above all the moral justification for the 
actual existence of trade unions, those organizations which 
from the beginning rendered the greatest touting service 
to the political party. 

During my years of apprenticeship in Vienna I was 
forced, whether I wanted or not, to define my attitude 
regarding the question of unions. 

As I looked upon them as an inseparable part of the 
Social Democratic Party as a whole, my decision was quick 
and wrong. 

It was natural that I should reject them flatly. 

In this enormously important question Fate itself gave 
me lessons. 

The result was the reversal of my first decision. ** 

By the time I was twenty I had learned to distinguish 
between the union as a means of defending the general 
social rights of the employees and of fighting for better 
living conditions for the individual, and the union as a 
party instrument in the political class war. 

The fact that Social Democracy realized the enormous 
importance of the union movement secured the instrument 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 61 

for it, and with it, success; it cost the bourgeoisie its political 
position because it did not understand this. By an im- 
pudent rejection it thought that it would be able to put 
an end to a logical develgpment, whereas in reality it only 
forced it to assume illogical paths. It is nonsense and, 
furthermore, untrue that the union movement in itself is 
unpatriotic. Quite the contrary is true. If union activity 
Axes as its goal, and carries out, the uplifting of a class 
which forms part of the basic pillars of the nation, it does 
not act unpatriotically or inimically towards the State, 
but it is 'national' in the true sense of the word. After 
all, it helps to create the preliminary social conditions 
without which a general national education is unthinkable. 
It is the highest merit of the union movement that it 
abolishes deep-seated social evils and that it attacks 
physical and mental infections, thus adding to the general 
welfare of the national body. 

The question as to its necessity, therefore, is really 
superfluous. 

As long as there are amongst the employers people with 
little social understanding or even lacking a sense of justice 
and fairness, it is not only the right but even the duty of 
their employees, who after all form part of our national- 
ity, to protect the interests of all against the avarice and 
the unreasonableness of the individual; the safeguarding 
of the faith and loyalty of a national body is a concern of 
the nation, just as is the safeguarding of the health of the 
people. 

Both are seriously endangered by unworthy employers 
who do not consider themselves part of the entire national 
community. The ill effects of their avarice and reckless- 
ness cause grave dangers for the future. 

To abolish the causes of such a development means to 
deserve well of the nation, and not perhaps the reverse. 

We cannot say that the individual is free to draw the 



62 MEIN KAMPF 

consequences from a real or imagined wrong that has been 
done to him, that means to go [sic]. Oh, no! This would be 
humbug and must be considered as an attempt at diverting 
one's attention. Either the abolition of evil and unsocial 
events is in the interest of the nation or it is not. If it is, 
then the battle against it has to be fought with the help of 
weapons which give hope for success. The individual worker 
is never in a position to maintain his position against the 
power of big business, because the question involved is not 
that of the victory of the higher right, for with its acknow- 
ledgment the whole argument, since there would be no 
reasons, would not exist; the question involved is only that 
of the greater power. On the other hand, the existing feel- 
ing of justice alone would end the quarrel in an honest 
manner, or, better still, the quarrel would never have 
started. 

No, if unsocial or unworthy treatment of human beings 
calls for resistance, and as long as no lawful and judicial 
authorities are created for the abolition of these evils, the 
struggle can be decided only by the stronger. But it is natural 
that the power of the employer, concentrated into one single 
person, can be opposed only by the masses of employees, 
united into one single body, as otherwise they would have to 
renounce aU hope for victory at the start. 

Thus the union organization may lead to a strengthening 
of a social idea in its practical effects on everyday life, and 
with it help towards the abolition of causes of irritation, 
which again and again bring about dissatisfaction ana 
complaint. 

That this is not the fact must for the most part be at- 
tributed to those who knew how to put obstacles in the 
way of every lawful regulation of social abuses or who 
have prevented it by means of their political influence. 

In the same measure in which the political bourgeoisie 
did not understand, or rather did not want to understand, 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 63 

the union organization and showed resistance against it, 
Social Democracy embraced the disputed movement. 
Thus it clear-sightedly created a firm basis which has 
proved itself as a last support in more than one critical 
hour. Of course, the original purposes were abandoned 
gradually to make room for new goals. 

Social Democracy never thought of preserving the pro- 
fessional movement it had included as its original task. 

No, this was not its intention. 

In the course of a few decades, under its skilled hand, 
ihe means for protecting social and union rights had be- 
come the instrument for the destruction of national 
economics. The interests of the workers were not to prove 
the least hindrance. For in politics, also, the application 
of economic means of pressure permits the exercise of ex- 
tortion, as long as there exists a sufficient amount of the 
necessary recklessness on the one side, and enough stupid, 
sheepish patience on the other. 

Something which in this case applies to both sides. 

At the turn of the century the union movement had 
already long since ceased to serve its original purpose. 
From year to year it had entered more and more into the 
confines of Social Democratic politics, till finally its pur- 
pose was only that of a ram in the class war. By its con- 
tinued blows it was to bring about the fall of the entire 
economic body, built up with great care, so that the 
structure of the State, after its economic foundations had 
been destroyed, would easily meet with the same end. 
The representation of all the economic needs of the workers 
was receiving less and less consideration, till finally po- 
litical wisdom did not think it desirable to remedy the 
social or even cultural distress of the great masses any more, 
for once their demands had been satisfied, one would run 
the risk that they could no longer be used as helpless storm 
troops. 



64 MEIN KAMPF 

So great was the fear that such an ominously perceived 
development had instilled in the leaders of the class war 
that they at last not only declined, but even opposed, any 
real beneficial social action. 

They never were at a loss for an explanation for such an 
apparently incomprehensible attitude. 

By screwing the demands higher and higher, their pos- 
sible fulfillment seemed so small and unimportant that one 
was able to convince the masses at any time that one had 
only to deal with the devilish attempt to weaken or even 
paralyze the force of the working class by such a ridiculous 
satisfaction of their holiest claims. Considering the limited 
thinking power of the masses, the success is not surprising. 

In the camp of the bourgeoisie, the indignation was great 
at this apparent insincerity of the Social Democratic 
tactics, but without drawing even the slightest deductions 
for a directive of their own. The Social Democrats' very 
fear of the actual raising of the workers from the depths 
of their present cultural and social misery should have led 
to the greatest efforts in this direction, so that the instru- 
ment would gradually have been wrenched from the repre- 
sentatives of the class war. 

But this was not done. 

Instead of conquering the position of the enemy by an 
attack of their own, they preferred to be pressed and pushed, 
till finally the actions which were taken were entirely in- 
adequate because they came too late; as they were too 
unimportant, it was easy to reject them. Thus in reality 
everything remained as it had been, only the dissatisfaction 
was greater than before. 

Like a threatening thundercloud, the 'free trades union' 
hung over the political horizon and the life of the individual. 

It was one of the most terrible instruments of intimida- 
tion against the security and the independence of national 
economy, the solidity of the State and personal freedom. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 65 

It was the free trades union above all which turned the 
conception of Democracy into a ridiculous and repellent 
phrase, which profaned liberty and ridiculed fraternity 
forever with the words ' Und willst du nicht Gcnossc sein, 
so schlagen wir dir den Schaedel ein.' [And if you will not 
join with us, we'll crack your skull.] 

Thus I learned to know this 'Friend of mankind. 9 My 
opinion was enlarged and deepened in the course of the 
years, but I had no reason to change it. 



The more insight I gained into the externals of Social 
Democracy, the greater became my longing to penetrate to 
the nucleus of its doctrine. 

The official literature of the party, of course, was of 
little use. As far as economic problems are concerned, it is 
wrong in assertion and proof; as regards the political aims, 
it lies. In addition, I was disgusted with its modern petti- 
fogging methods and its writing. With an enormous amount 
of words of unclear content or unintelligible meaning it piles 
up sentences which are supposed to be as ingenious as they 
are meaningless. Only the decadent bohemianism of our 
big cities may feel at home in this labyrinth of reason, to 
pick up an 'inner experience 9 from the dung heap of this 
literary dadaism, supported by the proverbial modesty of 
part of our people, which senses deepest wisdom in the most 
incomprehensible things. 

However, by balancing the theoretical untruth and the 
nonsense of this doctrine with the reality of its appearance, 
I gradually gained a clear picture of its inner intention. 

In such hours I had sad forebodings and was filled with 
a depressing fear, I was faced by a doctrine consisting of 
egoism and hatred; it could be victorious, following mathe- 
matical laws, but at the same time it could bring about the 
end of mankind. 



66 MEIN KAMPF 

Meanwhile I had learned to understand the connection 
between this doctrine of destruction and the nature of a race, 
which hitherto had been unknown to me. 

Understanding Jewry alone is the key to the comprehension 
of the inner, the real, intention of Social Democracy. 

He who knows this race will raise the veil of false concep- 
tions, and out of the mist and fog of empty social phrases 
there rises the grinning, ugly face of Marxism. 



Today I would find it difficult, if not impossible, to say 
when the word 'Jew* gave me cause for special thoughts for 
the first time. At home, as long as my father lived, I cannot 
remember that I ever heard the word. I am sure that if the 
old gentleman had mentioned the term in any special way, 
he would probably have been indicating antiquated culture. 
In the course of his life his opinions had been more or less 
cosmopolitan, which he not only retained despite his strong 
national feelings, but they also had an effect upon me as 
well. 

Even in school I found no reason which could cause me to 
change this accepted picture. 

At the Realschule I became acquainted with a Jewish 
boy whom we all treated with circumspection, but only 
because experience had taught us not to trust him too much 
on account of his reticence; neither I nor the others had 
any particular thoughts in the matter. 

It was only when I was fourteen or fifteen that I came 
upon the word 'Jew' more frequently, partly in connection 
with political discussions. I felt a slight dislike and could 
not ward off a disagreeable sensation which seized me 
whenever confessional differences took place in my presence. 

At that time I did not look upon this question from any 
other point of view. 

There were only a very few Jews in Linz. In the course 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 67 

of the centuries their external appearance had become 
European and human; yes, I even looked upon them as 
Germans. The nonsense of this notion was not clear to me, 
since I saw the only distinguishing mark in their strange 
religion. The fact that they had been persecuted on that 
account (as I believed) turned my aversion against un- 
favorable remarks about them almost into abhorrence. 

I had no idea at all that organized hostility against the 
Jews existed. 

And so I arrived in Vienna. 

Captivated by the mass of architectural impressions, 
depressed by the burden of my fate, I was at first unaware 
of the classification of the population in the huge city. 
Although Vienna in those years already had two hundred 
thousand Jews among its two million inhabitants, I did not 
see them. During the first weeks, my eyes and my senses 

The position of the Jews in Austria was far different from 
what it was in Germany. Census figures for 1890 indicate that 
there were 17,693,648 Catholics, and 1,143,305 Jews in the 
Empire. Other groups Greek Catholics, Protestants, etc. 
together numbered less than 4,000,000. The only really large 
Jewish settlement in German Austria was in Vienna. Now 
during the nineteenth century, two sources of conflict other 
than economic class differences arose to plague the Habsburgs 
rising nationalist sentiment, which made every one of the 
linguistic groups avid for special favors, and growing hostility 
to the privileges accorded the Church. 

Liberalism, increasing in importance after 1848, had con- 
siderably strengthened the grip of educated Viennese Jews 
upon the press and literary production. They were then 
accused by the Catholic majority of having fomented antipathy 
to the Concordat under which the Catholic Church then lived, 
and more generally of spreading liberalistic ideas; and the 
shifting of responsibility for ill-feeling from one party to an- 
other became in time a normal feature of Austrian intellectual 



68 MEIN KAMPF 

were unable to take in the rush of so many new values and 
ideas. Only after settling down, when the confused pictures 
began to grow clearer, did I look at my new world more 
attentively, and then I also came upon the Jewish problem. 

I cannot say that I particularly liked the way in which 
I was to become acquainted with them. I still saw nothing 
but the religion in the Jew, and for reasons of human 
tolerance I continued to decline fighting on religious 
grounds. In my opinion, therefore, the language of the 
anti-Semitic Viennese press was unworthy of the cultural 
traditions of a great race. I was depressed by the memory of 
certain events in the Middle Ages which I did not wish to 
see repeated. Since the newspapers in question had not 
a high reputation generally for what reason I myself 
did not exactly know I saw in them more the products of 
envious annoyance rather than the results of a fundamental 
but incorrect opinion. 

My own opinion was supported by what seemed to me 
the much more dignified manner in which the really great 
press replied to all these attacks, or, what I thought even 
more worthy of respect, it did not mention them or ignored 
them completely. 

I zealously read the so-called world press (Neue Freie 

and journalistic life. The differences might have been ironed 
out in time if nationalistic sentiment and the resultant 
tendency to look upon Austria-Hungary as a * state of nations ' 
had not played its part. The Jews were looked upon as a 
separate 4 nation ' side by side with Germans, Czechs, and others. 
Consequently, even those Jews who became Catholics or 
Protestants were no longer assimilated. By changing their 
creed, they separated confessionally from a group to which 
they were nevertheless bound 'nationally.' Theoretically, of 
course, Jewish converts to Catholicism or Protestantism were 
accepted as equals, but in practice an increasingly large number 
of persons came to look upon such conversions as spurious. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 69 

Presse, Wiener Tageblatt, etc.) and I was astonished at the 
scope of what it offered its readers in general and at the 
objectivity of the representation in detail. I respected the 
dignified tone, though the extravagance of its style some- 
times did not quite satisfy me and at times even displeased 
me. But this was perhaps due to life in the metropolis in 
general. 

Since at that time I considered Vienna a metropolis, 
I thought I was justified in letting the explanation I had 
given myself pass for an excuse. 

What repelled me sometimes, however, was the un- 
dignified manner in which the press wooed the Court. 
There was hardly any occurrence at the Hofburg which was 
not reported to the reader either in raptures of enthusiasm 
or in complaining amazement, especially when the 'wisest 
of all monarchs' of all times was concerned, the fuss almost 
resembled the mating cry of the mountain-cock. 

To me this seemed artificial. 

In my opinion liberal democracy was blemished by this. 

To strive for the favor of the Court in such an indecent 
manner signified ridiculing the dignity of the nation. 

This was the first shadow to cloud my spiritual relation- 
ship with the 'great' Viennese press. 

In Vienna I continued, as I had done before, to follow 
up all events in Germany with the fieriest enthusiasms, no 
matter whether political or cultural questions were con- 
cerned. With proud admiration I compared the rise of the 



Hitler did not, therefore, share the prevailing Catholic 
feeling that Jewish intellectuals and journalists were under- 
mining the rights of the Church. He was a 'liberal 9 in the 
sense that he, though born a Catholic, refused to commit 
himself seriously to one side of a religious discussion. What 
annoyed him was that the 'liberal' newspapers, to a large 
extent edited by Jews, defended the hated Habsburg House, 



70 MEIN KAMPF 

Reich with the decline of the Austrian State. But while 
foreign political events gave me undivided joy, the less 
enjoyable domestic affairs often distressed me. At that 
time I did not approve of the fight that was being waged 
against Wilhelm II. In him I saw not only the German 
Emperor but also the creator of the German navy. The 
restriction of speech which the Reichstag imposed on the 
Kaiser annoyed me very much for the simple reason that 
it was issued by that institution which in my opinion had 
really no authority to do so, especially as during one single 
session these parliamentarian ganders produced more 
honking nonsense than a whole dynasty of emperors, its 
sorriest weaklings included, could have produced in 
centuries. 

I was indignant at the fact that in a State where every 
halfwit not only claimed the right to criticize, but where in 
the Reichstag he was let loose on the nation as a ' legislator/ 
the bearer of the imperial crown could be given 'repri- 
mands' by the greatest babbling institution of all time. 

It infuriated me even more that the same Viennese press 
which made the deepest curtsy even to the lowest of the 
Court nags, and which was beside itself with joy at the 
accidental waving of its tail, now with an apparently sorrow- 
ful mien but, as I thought, with ill-concealed malice 
expressed its objections against the German Kaiser. It was 



advocated parliamentary government, and criticised the all- 
highest Kaiser Wilhelm II. Here is one reason why he 
would later on throw German Catholics and Marxists into one 
pot. Both were upon occasion critical of the Prussian znon- 
archs, and both were dyed-in-the-wool advocates of parliamen- 
tary procedure. In Austria he had no reason to make this 
identification. Because they felt that the Habsburgs had often 
failed to support the cause of the Church, numerous groups of 
Catholics had waxed critical of the monarchy. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 71 

farthest from its intentions to interfere with the affairs 
of the German Reich no, God forbid! but by placing 
a friendly finger on these wounds one fulfilled the duty 
imposed by the mutual alliance, and on the other hand, 
one's duty to journalistic truth, etc. Now this finger probed 
about in the wound to its heart's content. 

Such things made the blood rush to my head. 

It was this that made me look upon the great press with 
increasing caution. 

I had to admit, however, that one of the anti-Semitic 
papers, the Deutsche Volkszeitung, behaved better on one 
of these occasions. 

The disgusting veneration which the press even then 
expressed for France got on my nerves. One had to be 
ashamed of being a German when seeing these sweetish 
hymns of praise to the 'great culture nation.' More than 
once this wretched wooing of France made me put down 
one of these 'world papers.' I turned more and more to the 
Volksblatt, which I considered much smaller but which was 
also much cleaner than the other papers as far as these 
things were concerned. I did not agree with its sharp anti- 
Semitic tone, but now and then I read explanations which 
made me stop to think. 

At any rate and because of this, I gradually learned to 
know the man and the movement who ruled Vienna's 
destiny: Doktor Karl Lueger and the Christian Socialist 
Party. 



Karl Lueger (1844-1910) founded the Christian-Social Party 
(to which Dr. Engelbert Dollf uss and Dr. Kurt von Schuschnigg 
belonged) on the basis of a program that combined a good 
deal of progressive municipal legislation with a shrewd aware- 
ness of the political values latent in popular anti-Semitism. 
He had a Jewish ancestor in his family tree, had numerous 
Jewish friends, and as Mayor of Vienna issued the slogan. 



72 MEIN KAMPF 

When I first came to Vienna I was inimical to both of 
them. 

In my opinion, the man and the movement were 're- 
actionary/ 

f My usual sense of justice made me change this opinion 
as I had the opportunity of getting acquainted with the 
man and the movement; and slowly my fair judgment 
turned into open admiration. Today more than before I look 
upon this man as the greatest German mayor of all times. 

How many of my deliberate opinions were thrown over 
by my change of attitude towards the Christian Socialist 
movement! 

When because of this my opinions in regard to anti- 
Semitism also slowly began to change in the course of time, 
it was probably my most serious change. 

This change caused me most of my severe mental strug- 

4 1 am the one who decides who is a Jew.' Nevertheless Lueger's 
newspaper, the Volksblatt read by Hitler, was so violently anti- 
Semitic that the Archbishop of Vienna rebuked it in a Pastoral 
Letter which denounced 'heathenish race hatred.' To this 
Lueger retorted that to his great surprise and sorrow he found 
that the Archbishop was 'liberal through and through.' Rome 
took no definitive stand in the matter, the Papal Nuncio sup- 
porting the Archbishop while Cardinal Rampolla, then Papal 
Secretary of State, held a protecting hand over Lueger. The 
Volksblatt is indubitably a storehouse of information on the 
subject of Hitler's development. There one finds used, for 
example, the word voclkisch 'folkish,' i.e., pertaining to 
one's people, which is both 'race' and 'nation.' Even more 
delectable to Hitler were Lueger's constant brushes with the 
Emperor. Into this same period of time there also falls the 
origin of statements that the Talmud teaches pernicious ethics, 
encouraging Jews to gouge their Christian neighbors in every 
possible way. Dr. August Rohling's book, Der Talmud Judt 
(The Talmud Jew), appeared in 1871, was widely read or 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 73 

gles, and only after months of agonizing between reason 
and feeling, victory began to favor reason. Two years later 
feeling had followed reason, and from now on became its 
most faithful guard and monitor. 

In the period of this bitter struggle between spiritual 
education and cold reasoning, the pictures that the streets 
of Vienna showed me rendered me invaluable services. 
The time came when I no longer walked blindly through 
the mighty city as I had done at first, but, with open eyes, 
looked at the people as well as the buildings. &lt; 

One day when I was walking through the inner city, 
I suddenly came upon a being clad in a long caftan, with 
black curls. 

Is this also a Jew? was my first thought. 

At Linz they certainly did not look like that. Secretly 
and cautiously I watched the man, but the longer I stared 
at this strange face and scrutinized one feature after the 
other, the more my mind reshaped the first question into 
another form : 

Is this also a German? 

As was my custom in such cases, I tried to remove my 
doubts by reading. For the first time in my life I bought 
some anti-Semitic pamphlets for a few pennies. They all 
started with the supposition that the reader already knew 
the Jewish question in principle or understood it to a certain 



quoted from in subsequent decades, and is still today the source 
from which all such accusations derive. It was debated pro 
and con at the time, being the object of litigation from which 
Rohling withdrew. Doubtless Hitler's anti-Jewish prejudice 
derives in part from his reading on this subject. For a Jewish 
treatment of this matter, cf. Erinnerungen aus mcinem Lcben, 
by Joseph S. Bloch (Vienna, 1922). For a succinct Catholic 
summary, cf. Zeitalter des Individualismus, by L. A. Veit 
(Freiburg, 193*)- 



74 MEIN KAMPF 

degree. Finally, the tone was such that I again had doubts 
because the assertions were supported by such extremely 
unscientific arguments. 

I then suffered relapses for weeks, and once even for 
months. 

The matter seemed so monstrous, the accusations so 
unbounded that the fear of committing an injustice tortured 
me and made me anxious and uncertain again. 

However, even I could no longer actually doubt that 
they were not Germans with a special religion, but an 
entirely different race; since I had begun to think about this 
question, since my attention was drawn to the Jews, I began 
to see Vienna in a different light from before. Wherever I 
went I saw Jews, and the more I saw of them, the sharper 
I began to distinguish them from other people. The inner 
city especially and the districts north of the Danube Canal 
swarmed with a people which through its appearance alone 
had no resemblance to the German people. 

Even if my doubts had continued, my hesitation was 
finally dispelled by the attitude of part of the Jews them- 
selves. 

A great movement amongst them, which was widely 
represented in Vienna, was determined to affirm the na- 
tional character of Jewry: the Zionists. 

It appeared as though only part of the Jews approved of 
this attitude and the majority disagreed or even condemned 
it. The appearance, when closely examined, dissolved itself 
for reasons of expedience into an evil mist of excuses or 

Zionism, as proclaimed and finally established by Theodor 
Herzl, an Austrian Jewish poet, was undoubtedly the clear- 
est manifesto of the difficulties in which Austrian Jews found 
themselves. For it accepted a 'national' status for the Jew 
thus barring the route to assimilation and added that such 
a status led logically to the ideal of separate Jewish State. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 75 

even lies. For the so-called liberal Jews did not deny the 
Zionists for being non-Jewish, but for being Jews whose 
open acknowledgment of their Jewish nationality was 
impractical or even dangerous. 

This did not alter their internal solidarity in the least. 

Soon this apparent fight between Zionists and liberal 
Jews disgusted me; it was unreal throughout, based on lies, 
and little suited to the generally accepted high moral 
standard and purity of this race. 

The moral and physical cleanliness of this race was 
a point in itself. It was externally apparent that these 
were not water-loving people, and unfortunately one could 
frequently tell that even with eyes closed. Later the smell 
of these caftan wearers often made me ill. Added to this 
were their dirty clothes and their none too heroic appear- 
ance. 

Perhaps all this was not very attractive; aside from the 
physical uncleanliness, it was repelling suddenly to discover 
the moral blemishes of the chosen people. 

Nothing gave me more cause for reflection than the 
gradually increased insight into the activities of Jews in 
certain fields. 

Was there any form of filth or profligacy, above all in 
cultural life, in which at least one Jew did not partici- 
pate? 

When carefully cutting open such a growth, one could 
tind a little Jew, blinded by the sudden light, like a maggot 
in a rotting corpse. 

The Jews' activity in the press, in art, literature, and the 
theater, as I learned to know it, did not add to their credit 

These criticisms do not reflect actual critical study of the 
literature of the subject, but are echoes of Volksblatt editorials. 
There were some Jewish scribes of an objectionable sort; and 
they had their gentile bedfellows. To the great poets of 



76 MEIN KAMPF 

in my eyes. All unctuous assertions were of little or no 
avail. It was sufficient to look at the bill-boards, to read 
the names of those who produced these awful works for 
theaters and movies if one wanted to become hardened 
for a long time. This was pestilence, spiritual pestilence 
with which the people were infected, worse than the Black 
Death of former times! And in what quantities this poison 
was produced and distributed! Of course, the lower the 
spiritual and the moral standard of such an art manufac- 
turer, the greater his fertility, till such a fellow, like a 
centrifugal machine, splashes his dirt into the faces of 
others. Besides, one must remember their countless num- 
ber; one must remember that for one Goethe, Nature plays 
a dirty trick upon mankind in producing ten thousand such 
scribblers who, as germ carriers of the worst sort, poison the 
minds of the world. 

It could not be overlooked how terrible it was that the 
Jew above all was chosen in so great a number for this 
disgraceful task. 

Was this to prove the fact that the Jews were the chosen 
people? 

Carefully I began to examine the names of those who 
created these unclean products of artistic life. The result 
had a devastating influence on my previous attitude to- 



Jewish extraction, Hugo von Hoffmansthal or Karl Kraus for 
example, the nationalists were just as ferociously indifferent 
as they were to the literary efforts of Czechs and Hungarians. 
This attitude was later on transplanted to Germany. Ques- 
tioned as to German post- War literature, a member of Papen's 
Cabinet retorted in 1933 that of course none of it could be any 
good. A still more logical sequel was the ' burning of the books f 
in Nazi Germany. Since then the official report on literature 
written by racially inferior authors is eingestampft i.e., 
reduced to pulp. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 77 

wards the Jews. No matter how much my feeling resisted, 
Reason had to draw its own conclusions. 

The fact was not to be denied that ninety per cent of 
all literary and artistic rubbish and of theatrical humbug 
was due to a race which hardly amounted to one-hundredth 
of all inhabitants of the country. Yet it was so. 

Now I also began to examine my beloved 'world press' 
from this point of view. 

The deeper I probed, the more the subject of my former 
admiration diminished. I could no longer stand its style, 
I had to reject its contents on account of its shallowness, 
the objectivity of ks presentation seemed untrue rather 
than honest truth ; the authors, however, were Jews. 

Now I began to notice tj^MA9H**&amp;ihi n &amp;s which previ- 
ously I had hardly seen^djE^giBBJI^attuierstand others 
which had already ca^ff^Sf^lSS^^^^^, 

Now I saw the libm-5intiide of th^^^sjain a different 
light; its dignified lapjS^^^ff 9fiF^$&gt; % tac ^Si or its 
completely ignoring IranK, w^mv^Sedrd twapj a trick as 
clever as it was m Ww\he^^riJHpa* thratripfl criticisms 
always dealt with JewmK rathorel dna-ne^ecJold they attack 
anyone except the GfinXThe sljgtft^ypricks against 
Wilhelm II proved in mJ^ghsi^^c^J^^methods, and so 
did the commendation of F^tejSaaBrfrore and civilization. 
The trashy contents of the novel now became obscene, and 
the language contained tones of a foreign race; the general 
intention was obviously so detrimental to the German 
nationality that it could only have been intentional. 

But who had an interest in this? 

Was it all a mere accident? 

Slowly I became uncertain. 

This development was accelerated by my insight into 
a series of other events. This was the conception of manners 
and morality as it was openly shown and exercised by 
a great number of Jews. 



7t MEIN KAMPF 

Again the life in the street gave some really evil demon- 
strations. 

In no other city ot western Europe could the relationship 
between Jewry and prostitution, and even now the white 
slave traffic, be studied better than in Vienna, with the 
possible exception of the seaports of Southern France. 
When walking at night through the streets and alleys of the 
Leopoldsstadt, with every step one could witness things 
which were unknown to the greater part of the German 
nation until the war gave the soldiers on the Eastern Front 
an opportunity to see similar things, or rather forced them 
to see them. 

An icy shudder ran down my spine when seeing for the 
first time the Jew as a cool, shameless, and calculating 
manager of this shocking vic, the outcome of the scum of 
the big city. 'L ^f ^ 

But then my indignation flare*? upa 

Now 1 did not evade the discussidn &lt;$ the Jewish question 
any longer; no, I sought itou^:. A Cj&amp;rned to look for the 
Jew in every field of our Cultural ajicj^ftistic l^ e &gt; I suddenly 
bumped against him in a place where I* had never suspected. 

The scales dropped J rom n\y eye^&lt;lvhen I found the Jew 
as the leader of SociaJ Dejpiocjrac^i This put an end to a 
long internal struggle* v ,, ^_, "* 

f During my daily contact with my worker comrades, I was 
struck by the changeability with which they demonstrated 
different attitudes towards one and .the same question, 
sometimes in the course of a few days, sometimes even after 
a few hours. I could hardly understand how people who 
expressed sensible opinions when talked to individually 
suddenly changed their minds when influenced by the spell 
of the masses. It often made me despair. After hours of 
talking I often thought that I had broken the ice or cleared 
up some nonsense and rejoiced at my success, only to find 
to my dismay on the following day that I had to start all 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 79 

over again; everything had been in vain. The madness of 
their ideas seemed to swing back and forth like a pendulum 
in perpetual motion. 

I could still understand everything: that they were 
dissatisfied with their lot and cursed Fate for hitting them 
so hard ; that they hated the employers whom they looked 
upon as the cruel executives of Fate; that they cursed the 
authorities who in their eyes had no understanding for 
their situation; that they demonstrated against the high 
cost of living and marched in the streets to make their 
demands; all this I could understand at least without re- 
course to reason. But what I never understood was their 
boundless hate towards their own nationality, how they 
despised their national greatness, soiled its history and 
abused its heroes. 

The fight against one's own race, against one's own nest 
and homeland, was as senseless as it was incomprehensible. 
It was unnatural. 

One could cure them temporarily of this vice, but only 
for days or weeks at the most. If later one met the supposed 
convert again, he had become the same as before. 

The unnatural had taken hold of him again. &lt; 



I gradually realized that the Social Democratic press 
was headed primarily by Jews; but I did not attach special 
importance to this fact, as it was the same with the other 
newspapers. But one thing struck me: there was not one 
paper that employed Jews which had a really national 
tendency, as I understood it, based on my education and 
attitude. 

Now, although I made an effort and tried to read these 
Marxian products of the press, my aversion was intensified ; 
I tried to get better acquainted with the producers of this 
mass of knavery. 



80 MEIN KAMPF 

They all were Jews from the publishers downwards. 

I took all the Social Democratic pamphlets I could get 
hold of and traced the names of their authors: they all were 
Jews. I memorized the names of all the leaders; the greater 
part of them were also members of the 'chosen people'; no 
matter if they were representatives of the Reichsrat or 
secretaries of the unions, presidents of organizations or 
street agitators. One always found the same uncanny 
picture. The names Austerlitz, David, Adler, Ellenbogen, 
and so forth, will remain in my memory forever. 

One thing had become clear to me: the party with whose 
little representatives I had to fight the hardest struggle 
during many months were almost entirely in the hands of 
a foreign race; it brought me internal happiness to realize 
definitely that the Jew was no German. 

Only now I learned thoroughly to know the seducers of our 
people. 

Only a year of my stay in Vienna had sufficed to con- 
vince me that no worker was so stubborn as not to give in to 
better knowledge and better arguments. Gradually I be- 
came acquainted with their own doctrine and I used it as 
a weapon in the battle for my own internal conviction. 

Now success was nearly always on my side. 

It was possible to save the great masses, but only after 
the greatest sacrifices of time and patience. 

The theory of preponderant Jewish leadership in Austrian 
Social Democracy is not substantiated by the facts. After 
the War there were quite a number of Jewish intellectuals in 
dominant positions, yet even then the Party leadership through- 
out German Austria was overwhelmingly Aryan. Moreover the 
Anschluss, though marked by wholesale arrests, was character- 
ized by impressive leniency towards the former Socialists, who 
suffered little in comparison with the Legitimists. This would, 
of course, not have been the case had the Socialists been as 
non-Aryan as Hitler here suggests. 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 81 

But it was never possible to free a Jew from his convic- 
tions. 

At that time I was still naive enough to try to make 
clear to them the madness of their ideas; in my small circle 
I talked until my tongue was weary and till my throat was 
hoarse, and I thought I could succeed in convincing them 
of the destructiveness of their Marxist doctrine of irra- 
tionality; but the result was only the contrary. It seemed 
as though the increasing realization of the destructive 
influence of Social Democratic theories would serve only to 
strengthen their determination. 

The more I argued with them, the more I got to know 
their dialectics. First they counted on the ignorance of 
their adversary; then, when there was no way out, they 
themselves pretended stupidity. If all this was of no avail, 
they refused to understand or they changed the subject 
when driven into a corner; they brought up truisms, but 
they immediately transferred their acceptance to quite 
different subjects, and, if attacked again, they gave way 
and pretended to know nothing exactly. Wherever one 
attacked one of these prophets, one's hands seized slimy 
jelly; it slipped through one's fingers only to collect again 
in the next moment. If one smote one of them so thoroughly 
that, with the bystanders watching, he could but agree, and 
if one thus thought he had advanced at least one step, one 
was greatly astonished the following day. The Jew did not 
in the least remember the day before, he continued to talk 
in the same old strain as if nothing had happened, and if 
indignantly confronted, he pretended to be astonished and 
could not remember anything except that his assertions 
had already been proved true the day before. 

Often I was stunned. 

One did not know what to admire more: their glibness of 
tongue or their skill in .lying. 

I gradually began to hate them. 



82 MEIN KAMPF 

All this had one good side: in the measure in which the 
bearers, or at least the propagators, of Social Democracy 
caught my attention, my love for my own people grew. 
Knowing the infernal versatility of these seducers, who 
dared to condemn the unhappy victims? How difficult 
I found it myself to master the dialectical lies of this race! 
How futile was success with people who turned truth into 
untruth, who denied the word that just has been spoken 
only to claim it as their own the very next minute! 

No. The better I learned to know the Jew, the more 1 
had to forgive the worker. 

In my eyes the fault was not his but theirs who did not 
consider it worth while to take pity on him, to give the son 
of the nation what was his due, and to smash the seducer 
and corrupter against the wall. 

Influenced by the experiences of everyday life, I myself 
began to trace the sources of the Marxist doctrine. Its 
workings had become clear to me in detail, my observant 
eye daily watched its success, and with a little imagination 
I was able to picture its consequences. The only remaining 
question was whether its founders imagined the result ot 
their creation in its ultimate form, or whether they them- 
selves were victims of an error. 

In my opinion both were possible. 

On the one hand it was the duty of every thinking human 
being to join the front ranks of the unhappy movement 
to prevent the worst possible disaster; on the other, the 
instigators of this national illness must have been devils 
incarnate; only in the brains 'of a monster not in the 
brains of a human being could the plan for an organiza- 
tion take shape and meaning, an organization whose 
activity must lead to the ultimate collapse of human 
culture and with it the devastation of the world. 

In this case the only remaining salvation was fight; a 
fight with all weapons which the human mind, reason, and 



YEARS OF STUDY AND SUFFERING 83 

will power are able to grasp, no matter which side will then 
be favored by Fate. 

Thus I began to make myself acquainted with the found- 
ers of this doctrine, in order to study the principles of the 
movement. The fact that I reached my goal more quickly 
than I dared to hope at first was due to the knowledge I had 
gained of the Jewish question, though at that time it had 
not gone very deep. This alone made possible a practical 
comparison between reality and the theoretical bragging of 
the apostles who founded Social Democracy, as it had 
taught me to understand the language of the people; they 
talk in order to conceal or at least to veil their thoughts; 
their real aim cannot be discovered on the lines, but slum- 
bers well hidden between them. 

This was the time in which the greatest change I was 
ever to experience took place in me. 

From a feeble cosmopolite I had turned into a fanatical 
anti-Semite. 

Only once more it was the last time I was sur- 
rounded with depressing thoughts in my state of deepest 
despair. 

While thus examining the working of the Jewish race 
over long periods of history, the anxious question suddenly 
occurred to me whether perhaps inscrutable Destiny, for 
reasons unknown to us poor mortals, had not unalterably 
decreed the final victory of this little race? 

Had this race, which always had lived only for this world, 
been promised the world as a reward? 

Have we the right to fight objectively for our self- 
preservation, or is this rooted in us only subjectively? 

While thoroughly studying the Marxist doctrine and by 
looking at the Jewish people's activity with calm clarity, 
Destiny itself gave me the answer. 

The Jewish doctrine of Marxism rejects the aristocratic 
principle in nature; instead of the eternal privilege of force 



84 MEIN KAMPF 

and strength, it places the mass of numbers and its dead- 
weight. Thus it denies the value of the individual in man, 
disputes the meaning of nationality and race, depriving 
mankind of the assumption for its existence and culture. 
As the basis of the universe it would lead up to the end of all 
order conceivable to man. And as in this greatest discernible 
organism only chaos could be the result of the application 
of such a law, so on this earth the decline of its inhabitants 
would be the result. 

If, with the help of the Marxian creed, the Jew conquers 
the nations of this world, his crown will become the funeral 
wreath of humanity, and once again this planet, empty of 
mankind, will move through the ether as it did thousands 
of years ago. 

Eternal Nature inexorably revenges the transgressions 
of her laws. 

Therefore, I believe today that I am acting in the sense 
of the Almighty Creator: By warding off the Jews I am 
fighting for the Lord's work. 



CHAPTER III 

GENERAL POLITICAL CONSIDERA- 
TIONS FROM MY TIME IN VIENNA 



I 



f IT IS my conviction today that a man should not take 
any active public part in politics before the age of thirty, 
except in cases of outstanding ability. He should not do 
so because up to that time the formation of a general plat- 
form takes place from which he examines the various 
political problems and defines his own final attitude to- 
wards them. The man who has now matured at least 
mentally may or should take part in the political guidance 
of the community only after reaching a fundamental view 
of life and, with it, a stability of his own way of looking 
at the individual current problems. 

If this is not the case, he runs the risk that some day he 
will have to change his attitude towards vital questions, 
or, despite his better knowledge and belief, to uphold 
points of view which reason and conviction have long since 
rejected. The first case is very embarrassing for him, for 
now personally uncertain, he has no longer the right to 
expect that his followers have the same unshakable belief 
in him as before ; such a reversal on the part of the leader 
brings uncertainty to his followers and frequently a certain 
feeling of embarrassment as regards those they have been 
fighting. But in the second case there may happen what 



86 MEIN KAMPF 

we so frequently see today: in the same measure in which 
the leader no longer believes in what he said, his defense 
will be hollow and shallow, and he will be base in his choice 
of means. While he himself no longer thinks seriously of 
defending his political revelations (one does not die for 
something one does not believe in), the demands he makes 
of his followers become greater and more impudent, till 
finally he sacrifices what is left of the leader in order to 
end up as a 'politician' ; that means that kind of man whose 
only real conviction is to have no conviction, combined 
with impudent obtrusiveness and the brazen-faced artful- 
ness of lying. 

If such a fellow, to the misfortune of decent people, be- 
comes a member of a parliament, it should be known from 
the beginning that the meaning of politics for him is only 
the heroic struggle for the feeding bottle for himself and 
his family. The closer his wife and children cling to it, 
the more tenaciously will he stick to his mandate. This 
alone makes all other men with political instincts his 
enemies; in every new movement he suspects the possible 
beginning of the end, and in every man greater than him- 
self he scents the probability of a renewed danger which 
threatens him. 

I will speak of these parliamentary bedbugs in detail 
later on. 

A man of thirty will also have to learn a lot more in the 
course of his life, but this will only be the supplement to, 
and the filling-out of, the frame which his view of life 
places before him. His learning will no longer be a re- 
learning in principle, but an adding to what he has learned, 
and his followers will not have to swallow the oppressing 
feeling that so far he has taught them the wrong ideas; 
on the contrary: the visible organic growth of the leader 
will give them satisfaction, as his learning means only the 
deepening of their own doctrine. This is, in their eyes, 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 87 

the proof for the truth of the opinions they have held so 
fan 

The leader who has to give up the platform of his general 
view of life because he found that it was wrong only acts 
with decency if he is ready to face the ultimate consequences 
from the realization that his previous views have been 
wrong. In such a case he must for all future times renounce 
at least all public political activity. As he has been already 
once the victim of a basic error, the possibility exists that 
this may happen a second time. On no account is he entitled 
to continue to utilize, or even demand, the confidence of 
his fellow citizens. 

The general profligacy of the cads who today consider 
themselves authorized to 'make' politics hardly lives up 
to his standard of decency. 

Hardly one of them is predestined for this task. 

I restrained myself from appearing in public, though I 
believe that I have occupied myself with politics more 
than many others. I talked of what occupied my mind or 
attracted me only in the narrowest circle. This speaking 
within the most limited frame had many advantages; I 
learned less to 'speak* than to gain an insight into the un- 
believably primitive opinions and arguments of the people. 
Thus I trained myself for my own further education with- 
out losing time or ignoring opportunities. Nowhere in 
Germany was the opportunity for this so favorable as in 
Vienna at that time. &lt; 



The general political thinking in the old Danubian 
monarchy was wider and more comprehensive in scope 
than in the old Germany, except for parts of Prussia, 
Hamburg, and the North Sea coast at that period. By 
'Austria 1 I mean, in this case, that part of the great Habs- 
burg realm which, in consequence of its German coloniza- 



88 MEIN KAMPF 

don, not only gave in every respect the original conditions 
for the formation of this State as a whole, but the popula- 
tion of which showed that force that exclusively for many 
centuries was able to give the inner cultural life to this 
artificial formation. The more time advanced, the more 
the existence and the future of this State depended on the 
maintenance of this germ cell of the realm. 

While the old hereditary lands represented the heart 
of the realm which continuously pumped fresh blood into 
the circulatory system of its political and cultural life, 
Vienna combined its brains and will power. 

Even the outward appearance of this city revealed the 
force it required to rule as the uniting queen over this 
conglomerate of nations, so that the splendor of her beauty 
made one forget the signs of approaching age of the whole. 

No matter how much the interior of the realm might 
twitch during the bloody struggles of the various nationali- 
ties, the countries abroad, especially Germany, saw only 
the lovely picture of that city. The delusion was the greater 
as Vienna in those days seemed to rise, perhaps for the last 
time, visibly and higher than before. Under the rule of a 
really ingenious mayor the venerable imperial residence 
of the emperors of the old realm once more awoke to a 
wonderfully young life. Officially, the last great German 
whom the ranks of the colonizing people of the Ostmark 
brought forth was not counted among the so-called 'states* 
men* ; but while Doktor Lueger, as mayor of the 'capital 
and the imperial residential city' of Vienna, produced as 
if by magic one amazing achievement after the other in 
nearly all domains of economic and cultural politics, he 
strengthened the heart of the entire realm, and in this 
roundabout fashion he became a statesman greater than 
all the so-called 'diplomats' of that period put together. 

If nevertheless the conglomeration of the nationalities 
called 'Austria 9 perished in the end, this does not speak 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 89 

unfavorably in the least of the political ability of the 
German nationality in the old Ostmark, for it was the in- 
evitable result of the impossibility of trying to safeguard 
permanently with the help of ten million people a State of 
fifty million people of various nationalities, unless definite 
suppositions were established in time. 
The German-Austrian thought in more than large terms, 
He was always accustomed to living within the frame of 
a great realm, and he never lost his understanding for the 
tasks connected with it. He was the only one in this State 
who saw, beyond the boundaries of the narrow crownland, 
the frontiers of the Reich ; even when Destiny finally sepa- 
rated him from the common motherland, he still tried to 
master the enormous task and to guard for the German 
nationality what his forefathers once had wrested from 
the East in never-ending struggles. Whereby one should 
remember that this could only be done with divided energy ; 
for the hearts and the memories of the best men never 
ceased to feel sympathy for the common motherland, and 
only the rest remained to the homeland. 

The German-Austrian's general horizon already was 
comparatively wide. His economic relations frequently 
included almost the entire many-sided realm. Nearly all 
great enterprises were in his hands, he supplied the greater 
part of the leading technical experts and officials. But he 
was also the representative of the foreign trade, as far 
as the Jew had not laid his hands upon this domain which 
had been his of old. As regards politics the German alone 
held the State together. Even the period of the military 
service in the army thrust him far across the narrow borders 
of the homeland. Though the German-Austrian recruit 
might enlist in a German regiment, it might as possibly be 
stationed in Herzegovina as in Vienna or Galicia. The 
officers' corps was still German and so was predominantly 
the body of officials. Finally, art and science were German. 



90 MEIN KAMPF 

Apart from the trash of the modern development of art, 
which might just as well have been produced by a Negro 
race, the German was the sole owner and propagator of a 
truly artistic mind. In music, architecture, sculpture, and 
painting, Vienna was the fountain which in inexhaustible 
profusion supplied the entire dual monarchy without ever 
visibly drying up. 

Finally, the German nation was also the pillar of the 
entire field of foreign politics, if one excepted a small 
number of Hungarians. 

Yet every attempt at preserving the realm was in vain, 
since the essentials were missing. 

In the Austrian State of nationalities there was but one 
way by which it could conquer the centrifugal forces of its 
various nations. Either the State was governed from the 
center and organized in the same way internally, or it 
was altogether unthinkable. 

This knowledge dawned on the Very highest 1 authority 
in various enlightened moments, but in most cases it was 
soon forgotten or put aside as being too difficult to be 
carried out. Every idea of giving the realm a more feder- 
alistic form was bound to fail in consequence of the absence 
of a strong germ cell of superior force in the State. To this 
was added the various other internal conditions of the 
Austrian State which in principle differed from those of 
the German Reich of Bismarck. In Germany, the main 
problem was only to overcome political tradition, as there 
always had been a common cultural basis. But the Reich, 
with the exception of a few foreign splinters, possessed only 
members of one race. 

In Austria the situation was the reverse. 

Here the political memory of the various nations' own 
greatness, except for Hungary, was either entirely lacking, 
or it had been wiped out by the sponge of time, or at least 
was blurred and indistinct. To make up for this, in the 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 91 

period of the development of the principle of nationalities, 
the various countries began to develop popular forces; the 
conquering of these forces became the more difficult as 
nation-States began to form themselves on the border of 
the monarchy whose people were either similar or racially 
related to the individual Austrian national splinters and 
they were now able to exercise a greater force of attraction 
than that possible to the German -Austrian. 

Even Vienna was not able to keep up this fight in the 
long run. 

With Budapest's development into a capital, Vienna 
was for the first time faced with a rival whose task was no 
longer the concentration of the entire monarchy, but rather 
the strengthening of one of its parts. After a short time 
Prague was to follow this example, then came Lemberg, 
Laibach, etc. With the rise of these one-time provincial 
towns to national capitals of the individual countries, 
there were now also formed centers for a growing independ- 
ent cultural life. It was only through this that the national 
political instincts now received their spiritual foundation 
and depth. Thus the time was bound to come when the 
driving forces of the individual nationalities became more 
powerful than the force of their combined interests, and 
then Austria would be done for. 

Since the death of Joseph II, the course of this develop- 
ment could be distinctly traced. Its speed depended on a 
series of factors which were partly rooted in the monarchy 
itself, but which were, on the other hand, the results of the 
position of the realm in foreign politics. 

If the struggle for the preservation of the State was to 
be taken up seriously and fought to a finish, a ruthless and 
persistent centralization alone could lead to the goal. But 
the homogeneity was to be stressed by the establishment 
in principle of a uniform State language, while the admin- 
istration was to be given the technical instrument without 



92 MEIN KAMPF 

which such a State simply cannot exist. Only then could 
permanent uniform State consciousness be cultivated 
through schools and education. This could not be achieved 
in the course of ten or twenty years; one had to count on 
centuries, as in all questions of colonization persistency 
plays a more important rdle than the energy of the moment. 

That the administration and the political guidance have 
then to be carried out in strict uniformity is obvious. 

It is now very enlightening for me to establish why this 
did not happen, or rather, why it had not been done. Only 
he who was guilty of this omission was also guilty of the 
collapse of the realm. 

Old Austria, more than any other State, depended on 
the greatness of its leaders. Here the foundation of the 
national State was missing, which always possesses a power 
of preservation in its national basis, no matter how weak 
the leaders may be. The uniformly national State, thanks 
to the inherent indolence of its inhabitants and the powers 
of resistance connected with it, can sometime sustain itself 
for astoundingly long periods of incompetent administration 
or government, without thereby destroying its internal 
existence. Often it seems as though there were no more 
life in such a body, as though it were dead and done for, 
till suddenly the supposedly dead rises again and gives the 
rest of mankind astonishing proofs of its imperishable 
force of life. 

It is different, however, with a realm which is not com- 
posed of similar nationalities and which is not kept to- 
gether by common blood but by a common fist. Here 
every weakness of the leadership will not cause the State 
to hibernate, but it will cause an awakening of all individual 
instincts which are present by virtue of blood and race, 
but which have no chance of developing in times of pre- 
dominating will power. Only centuries of common educa- 
tion, common tradition, common interests, etc.. can miti- 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 93 

gate this danger. Therefore such State formations, the 
younger they are the more will they depend on the compe- 
tence of the leadership; even if they are the works of men 
of overwhelming force and of spiritual heroes, they will 
fall to pieces after the death of their one great founder. 
But even after centuries these dangers cannot be regarded 
as overcome; they merely slumber, and often awake quite 
suddenly as soon as the weakness of the common leader- 
ship, the force of education, and the sublimity of all tradi- 
tions are no longer able to overcome the sweep of the in- 
dividual vital instinct of the various tribes. 

The failure to understand this is perhaps the tragic guilt 
of the House of Habsburg. 

For only one of them did Fate uphold the torch over the 
future of his country, then it was extinguished forever. 

Joseph II, Roman Emperor of the German Nation, saw 
with trembling fear that his house, pushed toward the 
most remote corner of the realm, was bound to disappear 
in the maelstrom of a Babylon of nationalities unless the 
shortcomings of his forefathers were made good in the 
eleventh hour. This 'friend of man' opposed with super- 
human force the neglect of his ancestors and tried to 
recover, in the course of a decade, what centuries had let 



Joseph II (1765-1790) was actuated by a desire to strengthen 
the power of Austria, and believed the means to be adopted 
were a strong central government and a policy of Germaniza- 
tion. The official language was to be German; the Church was 
to be subordinated to the State, its servants being treated as 
dependent on the government in the normal sense of the civil 
service; and the universities were to teach, in the German lan- 
guage, whatever would serve to produce a well-trained official. 
These policies embroiled Austria in cultural strife of so serious 
an import that most of Joseph's laws were abrogated before 
his death. 



94 MEIN KAMPF 

slip by. Had he been granted forty years for his work, and 
had only two generations continued after him to carry out 
what he had begun, then the miracle would probably have 
been achieved. But when he died after a reign of hardly 
ten years, worn out in body and soul, his work was en- 
tombed with him never to be awakened again and went to 
sleep in the crypt of the Capucins forever. 

His followers were unequal to the task, either in spirit 
or in will power. 

When the first revolutionary flashes of lightning of a 
new era flamed through Europe, Austria also began gradu- 
ally to catch fire. But when at last the fire broke out, it 
was fanned not so much by social or general political causes, 
but rather by impulsive forces of national origin. 

The revolution of the year 1848 may have been a class 
war everywhere else, but in Austria it was the beginning of 
a new race struggle. The German, forgetting or not ac- 
knowledging his origin, sealed his own doom by entering 
into the service of the revolutionary movement. He helped 
in awakening the spirit of Western Democracy which after 
a short time deprived him of the foundation of his own 
existence. 

The foundation stone for the end of the German nation- 
ality's domination in the monarchy was laid by the forma- 
tion of a parliamentary body of representatives without the 
establishment and the solidification of a common State 
language. But from this moment on the State itself was 
doomed. Everything that now followed was only the 
historical liquidation of a realm. 

It was as shocking as it was instructive to trace this 
dissolution. This execution of an historical sentence was 
carried out in thousands and thousands of individual 
forms. That the gods willed the destruction of Austria 
was proved by the fact that a goodly part of the people 
marched blindly through the signs of decline. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 95 

I do not wish to lose myself in details, as that is not the 
purpose of this book. I want to include in the circle of 
closer observation only those events which are the constant 
causes of the decline of nations and States and which 
possess significance for our era as well, and which finally 
helped to guard the principles of my political thought. 



Among the institutions which might have revealed the 
disintegration of the Austrian monarchy, to the bourgeoisie 
who were not blessed with very sharp eyes, was one which 
should have chosen strength as its greatest quality the 
parliament, or, as it is called in Austria, the Reichsrat. 

Obviously, the example for this body was situated in 
England, the country of classical 'Democracy. 1 The entire 
blissful arrangement was transplanted from that country 
to Vienna with as little change as possible. 

The English two-chamber system celebrated its resur- 
rection in the Abgeordnetenhaus and the Herrenhaus. 
Only the 'houses' themselves were somewhat different. 
When Barry's Houses of Parliament reared themselves out 
of the waters of the Thames, he thrust his hand into the 
history of the British Empire and drew from it the decora- 
tions for the twelve hundred niches, consoles, and pillars 
of this magnificent building. Thus in sculpture and paint- 
ing the House of Lords and the Commons became the 
temple of the nation's glory. 

This was the first difficulty Vienna encountered. When 
the Danish Hansen had completed the last pinnacle on 
the marble building of the new diet, he had no choice but 
to borrow decorations from the ancient Greeks and Ro- 
mans. Roman and Greek statesmen and philosophers now 
embellish this theater building of 'Western Democracy,' 
and on top of the two houses, in symbolical irony, the 
quadrigae [sic] pull away from each other towards the four 



96 MEIN KAMPF 

corners of the globe, thus giving the truest external expres- 
sion of what was then going on internally. 

The 'nationalities' considered the glorification of Austrian 
history in this work an insult and a provocation, just as in 
the Reich proper one did not dare to consecrate Wallot's 
building, the Reichstag, to the German people until the 
thunder of the World War's battles roared. 

I was not quite twenty years old when I went for the 
first time into the magnificent building on the Franzenring, 
in order to attend a meeting of the House of Deputies as a 
spectator and auditor, and I was filled with the most 
contradictory feelings. 

I had always hated the parliament, yet not at all as an 
institution in itself. On the contrary, as a liberal thinking 
man I could not imagine any other possible form of govern- 
ment, for my attitude towards the House of Habsburg 
being what it was, I would have considered any kind of 
dictatorship a crime against all liberty and reason. 

In consequence of my thorough reading of newspapers 
in my youth, I had been inoculated with a certain admira- 
tion for the English parliament, although I probably did 
not suspect it, and this fact, which I was not able to give 
up so easily, contributed not a little to my attitude. The 
dignity with which there the House of Commons devoted 
itself to its task our press know how to describe it so 
nicely made a great impression on me. Was there a 
more dignified form of self-government of a nation any- 
where? 

For this very reason, however, I was an enemy of the 
Austrian parliament. In my opinion the entire form of its 
behavior was unworthy of its great prototype. But now the 
following was added : 

The fate of the German nationality in the Austrian State 
was dependent on its position in the Reichsrat. Up to the 
introduction of general suffrage and the secret ballot, a 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 97 

German majority existed in parliament, insignificant though 
it was. But this condition was precarious, for Social De- 
mocracy, with its unreliable attitude, always turned against 
the German interests so as not to estrange the followers of 
the individual foreign nationalities whenever critical 
questions concerning the German nationality were in- 
volved. Social Democracy could not be considered a 
German party even at that time. With the introduction 
of general suffrage, the German numerical superiority ceased 
to exist. Now the last obstacle to the de-Germanization 
of the State was removed. 

For this reason my national instinct of self-preservation 
did not inspire me with any love, for a representation of 
the people by which the German nationality was never 
'represented* but always 'betrayed.' But like so many 
other things, these were faults that were not due to the 
matter itself, but were to be attributed to the Austrian 
State. In those days, I still believed that with the re- 
establishment of the German majority in the representative 
bodies I would no longer have any reason for objections on 
general principles, as long as the old State continued to exist. 

With all this in mind, I entered for the first time the 
sacred and much-disputed rooms. For me, however, they 
were only sacred because of the sublime beauty of the 
magnificent building. It was a Hellenic miracle on German 
soil. 

But how indignant I was, even after a short time, when 
seeing the miserable comedy that was going on before my 
eyes. 

t Several hundred of these representatives of the people 
were present who at that moment had to decide about a 
question of important economic significance. 

The first day sufficed to give me food for thought for 
many weeks. 

The spiritual content of what was said was on a truly 



98 MEIN KAMPF 

depressing 'high level/ as far as the talk was at all intel- 
ligible; for some of the gentlemen did not speak German, 
but their Slavic mother tongue or rather dialects. What I 
had only known from reading the papers, I now had an 
opportunity of hearing with my own ears. It was a gesticu- 
lating mass, shrieking in all keys, wildly stirred, presided 
over by a good-natured old uncle who, by the sweat of his 
brow, tried to re-establish the dignity of the House by 
violently ringing a bell and by alternately kind and earnest 
remonstrances. 

I could not help laughing. 

A few weeks later I was again in the House. The picture 
had changed, it was hardly recognizable. The hall was 
empty. Down below everybody was sleeping. Some of 
the deputies were in their seats and yawned at each other, 
one of them 'spoke.' A vice-president of the House was 
present, looking around the hall, visibly bored. 

My first doubts arose. Now, whenever time permitted, 
I went there repeatedly, and quietly and attentively 
watched the scene of the moment, listened to the speeches 
as far as they were intelligible, studied the more or less 
intelligent faces of those elect of the nations of this de- 
plorable State and gradually I formed my own opinions. 

One year of this quiet observation sufficed to change, 
or to wipe out entirely, my former opinion of the nature of 
this institution. Now my mind no longer objected to this 
misshapen form which this idea had assumed in Austria; 
no, now indeed I was no longer able to accept parliament 
as such. So far I had seen the misfortune of the Austrian 
parliament in the absence of a German majority, but now 
I saw its doom in the makeup and nature of this institution 
altogether. 

Quite a number of questions occurred to me at that time. 

I began to familiarize myself with the democratic prin- 
ciple of decision by a majority as the basis of this entire 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 99 

institution, but I paid no less attention to the spiritual 
and moral values of the gentlemen, who, chosen by the 
nation, were supposed to serve this purpose. 

Thus I learned to know the institution, and at the same 
time, its representatives. 

In "the course of a few years, therefore, my knowledge 
and realization created the type of the most dignified 
representative of modern times with plastic clarity: the 
parliamentarian. He began to make an impression on me in 
a form which never again underwent a fundamental change. 

This time, also, practical reality with its object lessons 
had guarded me against suffocating in a theory which at 
first sight appears so tempting to many people, but which 
nevertheless must be counted among the symptoms of the 
decay of mankind. &lt; 

Democracy of the West today is the forerunner of 
Marxism, which would be inconceivable without it. It is 
democracy alone which furnishes this universal plague 
with the soil in which it spreads. In parliamentarianism, 
its outward form of expression, democracy created a 
'monstrosity of filth and fire' (Spottgeburt aus Dreck und 
Feuer) in which, to my regret, the 'fire' seems to have 
burned out for the moment. 

I have to be more than thankful to Fate that it also 
made me examine this question while I was still in Vienna, 
for I feel that had I been in Germany I would have found 
the answer too easily. Had I become acquainted with this 
ridiculous institution called 'parliament' for the first time 
in Berlin, I probably would have gone to the opposite 
extreme and would have joined the side of those who see 
the salvation of the nation and the Reich in the exclusive 
promotion of the Imperial power alone, and who thus 
blindly and incomprehensibly confront mankind and the 
times. 

In Austria this was impossible. 



100 MEIN KAMPF 

Here it was not so easy to fall from one mistake into 
another. If parliament was worth nothing, the Habsburgs 
were worth still less, certainly no more. Here the rejec- 
tion of 4 parliamentarianism ' alone would not do ; for then 
the question, 'What now?' still remained. The rejection 
and abolition of the Reichsrat would have left the House 
of Habsburg as the sole governmental power, and this 
idea was especially unbearable to me. 

The difficulty of this special case led me to a more 
thorough consideration of the problem as a whole than 
would otherwise have taken place at such an early age. 

First and most of all that which gave me food for thought 
was the visible lack of responsibility on the part of any 
single individual. 

Parliament makes a decision the consequences of which 
may be ever so devastating nobody is responsible for 

Hitler's argument is: the Germans of 1848 were led to water 
the principles which had guided their absolutistic leaders with 
'western democracy/ The essence of this democracy is (he 
holds) the grant of the right of franchise and representation 
to all citizens, with the result that an outlet is provided for the 
hitherto suppressed cravings of the masses. These want, how- 
ever, constantly to improve their lot, and so demand from 
rather than give to the State. Marxism is the theory which 
most effectively and audaciously sponsors the needs of the 
largest and most destitute group, and therefore the movement 
which exacts most from the State. In Austria the Socialists were 
particularly reprehensible because their relentless champion- 
ing of the class struggle obliterated ' national ' boundaries and 
therewith weakened the position of the Empire's rightful rulers, 
the Germans. In Germany the strength of democracy, symbol- 
ized by the Reichstag, was far less impressive. This Reichstag 
had some rights of importance, but waged a continuous struggle 
to exercise them as a matter of fact. If Hitler had been in 
Berlin, therefore, he might possibly have been content with the 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 101 

it, nobody can ever be called to account. For, does it mean 
assuming responsibility if, after an unheard-of collapse, 
the guilty government resigns? Or if the coalition changes, 
or even if parliament dissolves itself? 

Is it at all possible to make a wavering majority of 
people ever responsible? 

Is not the very idea of all responsibility closely con- 
nected with the individual? 

Is it practically possible to make the leading person of a 
government liable for actions, the development and execu- 
tion of which are to be laid exclusively to the account of 
the will and the inclination of a large number of men? 

Or must not the task of the leading statesman be seen 
in the birth of a creative idea or plan in itself, rather than 
in the ability to make the ingenuity of his plans under- 
stand taken by the Conservatives and as a consequence never 
have seen that salvation can come only from a dictatorship. 

Compare his statement at the Niirnberg Party Conference 
of 1935 : 'To build up the public service and the army in accord- 
ance with the law of personal responsibility and at the same 
time to fashion the general political direction of the State 
according to the principles of parliamentary democracy 
that is, of irresponsibility is bound to prove impossible. 
The democratic state, in its insecurity, proved helpless against 
the onslaughts of Bolshevistic Judaism. Confronted with this 
danger, monarchy was found to be equally ineffectual. So were 
the Christian confessions.' 

Elaborate theories of totalitarianism have since been devel- 
oped in number by German professors and writers. It may be 
doubted, however, whether they have more than an academic 
significance. On the other hand, Hitler's criticism of democracy 
as powerless to ward off Bolshevism had a profound effect 
upon the thinking of the middle classes. It is clear from the 
German newspapers of 1931 that many had begun to think 
that the only choice remaining to them was one between 



102 MEIN KAMPF 

standable to a flock of sheep and empty-heads for the pur- 
pose of begging for their gracious consent? 

fls this the criterion of a statesman that he masters 
the art of persuasion to the same extent as that of the 
diplomatic shrewdness in the choice of great lines of direc- 
tion or decision? 

Is the inability of a leader proved by the fact that he 
does not succeed in winning the majority of a crowd of 
people for a certain idea, dumped together by more or 
less fine accidents? 

Has this crowd ever been able to grasp an idea before 
its success was proclaimed by its greatness? 

Is not every ingenious deed in this world the visible 
protest of genius against the inertia of the masses? 

But what is the statesman to do who does not succeed 
in winning, by flattery, the favor of this crowd for his plans? 

Is he to buy it? 

Or is he now, considering the stupidity of his fellow 
citizens, to give up the carrying-out of the tasks he recog- 
nizes as of vital importance, or is he to retire, or should 
he still remain? 

Does not, in such a case, a real character find himself 
in an inextricable dilemma between knowledge and de- 
cency, or rather honest conviction? 

Where is the border that separates duty towards the 
community from the obligations of personal honor? 

Must not every real leader refuse to be degraded in such 
a way to the level of a political profiteer? 

And must not, on the other hand, every profiteer feel 

Mussolini and Stalin. This feeling grew until the carefully 
planned Reichstag fire (both Centrist ex-Chancellors, Dr. Wirth 
and Dr Brtining, declared in public addresses a few days after 
the event that it had been carefully planned) of 1933 made 
large groups of voters feel that Communism was upon them. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 103 

himself called on to 'make 1 politics, as it is not he who 
bears the ultimate responsibility, but rather some incom- 
prehensible crowd? 

Must not our parliamentary principle of the majority 
lead to the demolition of the idea of leadership as a whole? 

Or does one believe that the progress of the world has 
originated in the brains of majorities and not in the head 
of an individual? 

Or are we of the opinion that in the future we can do 
without this preliminary presumption of human culture? 

Does it not, on the contrary, appear more necessary 
today than ever before? &lt;&lt; 

The parliamentary principle of decision by majority, by 
denying the authority of the person and placing in its 
stead the number of the crowd in question, sins against 
the aristocratic basic idea of Nature, whose opinion of 
aristocracy, however, need in no way be represented by 
the present-day decadence of our Upper Ten Thousand. 

The reader of Jewish newspapers can hardly imagine the 
devastation which results from this institution of modern 
democratic parliamentary rule, unless he has learned to 
think and examine for himself. It is above all the cause 
of the terrible flooding of the entire political life with the 
most inferior products of our time. No matter how far 
the true leader withdraws from political activity, which 
to a great extent does not consist of creative work and 
achievement, but rather of bargaining and haggling for the 
favor of a majority, this very activity, however, will agree 
with and attract the people of low mentality. 

The more dwarfish the mentality and the abilities of 
such a present-day leather merchant are, the more clearly 
his knowledge makes him conscious of the wretchedness of 
his actual appearance, the more will he praise a system 
that does not demand of him the strength and the genius 
of a giant, but rather which calls for the cunning of a 



104 MEIN KAMPF 

village chief or which even prefers this kind of wisdom to 
that of a Pericles. Such a simpleton need never worry 
about the responsibility of his actions. He is relieved of 
this care for the reason that he knows, no matter what the 
result of his 'statesmanlike' bungling may be, that his 
end has long been predicted by the stars; some day he 
will have to make room for another, an equally great mind. 
It is, among other things, a symptom of such a decline 
that the number of great statesmen increases in the meas- 
ure in which the competence of the individual one de- 
creases. With increasing dependence on parliamentary 
majorities, he is bound to shrink, for great minds will 
refuse to serve as bailiff for stupid good-for-nothings and 
babblers, and on the other hand, the representatives of the 
majority, that is, of stupidity, hate nothing more ardently 
than a superior mind. 

For such an assembly of wise men of Gotham, it is 
always a comforting feeling to know that they are headed 
by a leader whose wisdom corresponds to the mentality 
of the assembly; for, is it not pleasant to let one's intellect 
flash forth from time to time, and finally, if Smith can be 
master, why not Jones also? 

This invention of democracy most closely conforms to 
a quality which lately has developed into a crying shame, 
that is, the cowardice of a great part of our so-called 
'leaders.' How fortunate to be able to hide, whenever 
decisions of importance are involved, behind the coat-tails 
of a so-called majority! 

One has only to watch such a political footpad to see 
how he anxiously begs for the consent of the majority for 
every action so that he may secure the necessary accom- 
plices, so as to be able to cast off responsibility at any 
time. But this is one of the chief reasons why such political 
activity is loathsome and hateful to a really decent, and 
therefore courageous, man, while it is attractive to all 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 105 

wretched characters and he who is not willing personally 
to assume the responsibility for his acts, but looks for 
cover, is a cowardly wretch. As soon as the leaders of a 
nation consist of such wretched fellows, vengeance will 
follow soon after. One will no longer be able to manifest 
the courage for decisive action; one would undergo any 
humiliating dishonor rather than make up one's mind ; be- 
cause there is nobody who is ready to risk his person and 
his head for the carrying-out of a ruthless decision. 

One thing we must and may never forget: here, too, a 
majority can never replace the Man. It is not only always 
a representative of stupidity, but also of cowardice. Just 
as a hundred fools do not make one wise man, an heroic 
decision is not likely to come from a hundred cowards. 

The easier the responsibility of the individual leader is, 
the more will the number of those grow who, even with the 
most wretched dimensions, will feel called upon to put 
their immortal energies at the disposal of the nation. Yes, 
they can hardly await their turn; lined up in a long queue, 
they count the number of those waiting ahead of them 
with sorrowful regret, and they figure out the hour when in 
all human probability their turn will come. Therefore, they 
long for every change in the office they aspire to, and are 
grateful for every scandal that thins out the ranks ahead 
of them. But if one of them refuses to vacate the place 
he has taken, they almost consider it a breach of the sacred 
agreement of mutual solidarity. Then they become vin- 
dictive, and do not rest till the impudent fellow, finally 
overthrown, puts his warm place at the disposition of the 
community. He will not regain his place quite so soon. 
For as soon as one of these creatures has been forced to give 
up his post, he will again try to push himself into the rows 
of the 'waiting,' provided he is not prevented from doing 
so by the outcry and the abuse of the others. 

The result of all this is the terrifyingly rapid change in 



106 MEIN KAMPF 

the most important positions and offices in such a State 
entity, a result which is unfavorable in any case, but which 
sometimes is even catastrophic. But now not only the 
stupid and inefficient will be victims to this custom, but 
even more so the true leader, provided Fate is able at al! 
to place him in that position. Once this has been realized, 
a united front of defense will be formed, especially if such 
a head, not originating from the ranks, nevertheless tries 
to force his way into this sublime society. They want to 
be by themselves on general principles, and hate a head, 
which could turn out to be number one among all these 
naughts, as a common enemy. In this direction the instinct 
is the sharper, no matter how much it may lack in other 
respects. 

Thus the consequence will be an ever-increasing intel- 
lectual impoverishment of the leading classes. Anyone can 
judge what the results will be for the nation and the State 
if he does not personally belong to this kind of 'leaders.' 
fOld Austria already had parliamentary government in 
its purest breeding. 

Of course, it was the emperor and king who appointed 
the prime minister, but this appointing was nothing but 
the carrying-out of the parliamentary will. The bargaining 
and trading for the individual ministers' offices, however, 
was Western Democracy of the purest water. The results, 
of course, were in keeping with the principles applied. The 
change of personalities especially took place in even shorter 
periods of time, till finally it would become a regular chase. 
Also, the intellectual dimensions of the occasional 'states- 
men' shrank more and more, till finally there remained 
only that small type of parliamentary profiteers whose 
value as statesmen was measured and acknowledged ac- 
cording to the ability with which they succeeded in pasting 
together the coalition of the moment ; that means carrying 
out the smallest political trading transactions which alone 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 107 

are able to justify the suitability of these representatives 
for practical action. 

Thus the Viennese school rendered the best insight in 
these fields. 

I was attracted no less by the comparison between the 
abilities and knowledge of these people's representatives 
and the tasks awaiting them. Whether one wanted to or 
not, one had to inspect more closely the intellectual horizon 
of these elected ones of the nations, whereby one could 
not avoid also paying the attention necessary to those 
events which led to the discovery of these magnificent 
specimens of our public life. 

Also the way and the manner in which the real abilities 
of these gentlemen were applied and put in the service 
of the fatherland, which is the technical side of their ac- 
tivities, was worthy of being examined and closely scruti- 
nized. 

The entire picture of parliamentary life became the more 
miserable the more one decided to penetrate into these 
internal situations and to study basic facts with ruthless 
and sharp objectivity. Indeed, one may apply this method 
towards an institution which leads one to point, by its 
supports, to this very 'objectivity 1 as the only justified 
basis for examination and defining of attitude. Therefore, 
one had better examine these gentlemen and the laws of 
their bitter existence, and the result will be surprising. 

There is no principle looked at objectively that is as 
wrong as the parliamentary principle. 

Here we must also disregard entirely the manner in 
which the people's representatives are elected, and how 
as a whole, they attain their offices and their new ranks. 
That only the smallest fraction of the common will or need 
is fulfilled here must be apparent to anyone who realizes 
that the political understanding of the great masses is not 
sufficiently developed for them to arrive at certain general 



108 MEIN KAMPF 

political opinions by themselves and to select suitable 
persons. &lt; 

What we mean by the word 'public opinion 1 depends 
only to the smallest extent on the individual's own ex- 
periences or knowledge, and largely on an image, frequently 
created by a penetrating and persistent sort of so-called 
1 enlightenment.' 

Just as confessional orientation is the result of education, 
and religious need, as such, slumbers in the mind of man, 
so the political opinion of the masses represents only the 
final result of a sometimes unbelievably tough and thor- 
ough belaboring of soul and mind. 

By far the greatest bulk of the political 'education,' 
which in this case one may rightly define with the word 
1 propaganda,' is the work of the press. It is the press above 
all else that carries out this 'work of enlightenment,' thus 
forming a sort of school for adults. This instruction, how- 
ever, does not rest in the hand of the State, but partly in 
the claws of very inferior forces. As a very young man in 
Vienna, I had the very best opportunity of becoming 
really acquainted with the owners and spiritual producers 
of this machine for educating the masses. At the beginning 
I was astonished how short a time it took this most evil of 
all the great powers in the State to create a certain opinion, 
even if this involved complete falsification of the wishes 
or opinions in the minds of the public. In the course of a 
few days a ridiculous trifle was turned into an affair of 
State, whereas, at the same time, problems of vital im- 
portance were dropped into general oblivion, or rather f 
were stolen from the minds and the memory of the masses. 

So they succeeded, in the course of a few weeks, in con- 
juring up some names out of nothing and attaching incred- 
ible hopes to them on the part of the great public, in even 
giving them a popularity which the really important man 
may never attain during his whole lifetime; names which. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 109 

in addition, nobody had even heard of only a month before, 
whereas at the same time old and trustworthy representa- 
tives of public or political life, though in the bloom of 
health, simply died in the minds of their contemporaries, or 
they were showered with such wretched abuses that soon 
their names were in danger of becoming the symbol of 
villainy and rascality. It is necessary to study this infa- 
mous Jewish method with which they simultaneously and 
from all directions, as at a given magic word, pour bucket- 
fuls of the basest calumnies and defamation over the clean 
garb of honest people, in order to appreciate the entire 
danger of these rascals of the press. 

Then, too, there is hardly anything which does not suit 
the purposes of such an intellectual robber baron in order 
to reach his end. 

Then he spys into the most secret family affairs and 
does not rest till his truffle-searching instinct finds some 
trifling event destined to bring about the unfortunate 
victim's fall. But even if the most thorough nosing about 
does not stir up anything at all in his victim's public or 
private life, then such a fellow will turn to calumny with 
the firm conviction that not only something of it will stick 
to his victim, despite thousandfold refutation, but that, 
in consequence of the hundredfold repetition of the calum- 
nies by all his accomplices, the victim is in most cases 



\ The propagandistic usefulness of snooping around in the 
private lives of opponents was recognized early by anti- 
clericals in Austria, and the lesson has not been lost on the 
Nazis. The Volkischer Beobachter (Hitler's official daily) and 
its immediate predecessors, Dietrich Eckart's Auf gut Deutsch, 
reveled in stories purporting to be based on the private lives 
of wealthier Jews. The terrain was later extended to take in 
the secret orgies of the Republic's officials, the Nacktbatt (dance 
in the nude) being a specialty. Gradually Julius Streicher's 



110 MEIN KAMPF 

unable to fight it; the motives of these scoundrels are never 
those which would be comprehensible or credible to others. 
God forbid! Such a rascal, by attacking the rest of his 
dear contemporary world in such an infamous fashion, 
wraps himself, like a cuttlefish, in a cloud of decency and 
unctuous phrases; he talks of 'journalistic' duty and simi- 
lar mendacious stuff; he even goes so far that during ses- 
sions and congresses occasions when one sees this plague 
assembled in greater numbers he twaddles of a special, 
that is, journalistic, "honor/ of which the assembled rascals 
bumptiously assure one another. 

This rabble, however, manufactures more than two- 
thirds of the so-called 'public' opinion, and out of its foam 
rises the parliamentary Aphrodite. 

One would have to write volumes to describe this pro- 
cedure correctly in its entire mendacity and untruthful- 
ness. However, if one leaves this out of account, and 

Sturmer outdistanced all rivals, becoming the world's champion 
illustration in pornographic defamation. More important, no 
doubt, was the use to which records taken from Catholic dio- 
cesan and monastic archives were put after 1934. Hundreds 
of trials for 'immorality' brought priests, religious, and lay- 
folk to court. Many were declared guilty; and even the inno- 
cent found themselves under a permanent cloud by reason of 
the difficulty with which such charges can be refuted. One 
amusing instance of how such stories were spread concerns 
Walther Rathenau, Foreign Minister in the Wirth Cabinet. 
He gave a dinner one evening for eighteen diplomats; and the 
next morning a very correct and honorable official came to call 
on the Chancellor. 'I regret having to warn Your Excellency 
against Heir Rathenau/ he said. 'But it is shocking last 
night he dined with eighteen naked ladies.' 4 I know all about 
it,' Dr. Wirth replied, 'I was there myself. But come into the 
next room and meet some of the ladies.' The surprised official 
was then introduced to half a dozen diplomats. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 111 

looking only at the resulting product together with its 
activity, it should suffice that the objective lunacy of this 
institution would dawn on even the most orthodox 
mind. 

It will be easiest to understand this absurd and danger- 
ous human error if one compares the democratic parliamen- 
tarianism with true Germanic democracy. 

The characteristic of the first is that a number of say 
five hundred, men and recently also women, are elected, 
who are entrusted with the final decision on everything. 
They alone practically represent the government, for 
though they elect the cabinet which to all outward appear- 
ances seems to take on the guidance of the State's affairs, 
this is nevertheless mere pretense. In reality, this so-called 
government cannot take one step without having first 

These passages reflect dissatisfaction with parliamentary in- 
stitutions as the foes of the Republic saw them after 1918. 
The German Reichstag was during these years probably the 
intellectual and moral equal of any parliament in the world. 
Yet, apart from the difficulties with which it was steadily con- 
fronted and which naturally added little to its popularity, it 
was handicapped by the fact that, when compared with the 
gentry and nobility who had ruled before the War, its spokes- 
men and ministers were 'little people.' Even Ernst Trdltsch, 
a great scholar and in his way a democrat, could not avoid that 
feeling. Newspapers loyal to the Republic could jest that there 
was hardly a man in the government who knew how to enter- 
tain at dinner. Nothing worse could be said about Matthias 
Erzberger, who signed the armistice and then became Minister 
of Finance, than that he had been 'only a school-teacher'; 
and few were honestly proud that Friedrich Ebert had once 
worked as a saddler. The result was that many honest parlia- 
mentarians especially among the Social Democrats suf- 
fered from what is often termed an inferiority complex. After 
the depression of 1929 set in, these feelings were intensified and 



112 MEIN KAMPF 

obtained the consent of the general assembly. Therefore, 
it cannot be held responsible for anything at all, as it is 
not the government which has the ultimate decision, but 
the majority of parliament. In all cases, therefore, the 
government is only the executive of the will of the major- 
ity. We could judge its political ability only by the skill it 
shows either in adapting itself to the will of the majority, 
or in winning it over. But then it sinks from the height of 
a real government to that of a beggar appealing to the 
majority. Its most important task now consists of securing 
either the favor of the majority, from case to case, or of 
taking upon itself the formation of a more gracious new 
majority. If it succeeds in this, then it may continue to 
'rule* for a short time longer, but if it does not, it must go. 
Whether its intentions are right or not is of no consequence. 

mixed with hatred. The petty sums received by the 'little men ' 
as delegates to the Reichstag were magnified into fabulous 
salaries; and many were afraid to go to the theater lest they be 
accused of undue prodigality. But after the Nazis came to 
power, all was different. During 1937, Dr. Goebbels authorized 
a film showing his beautiful new villa and its lawns. The re- 
ception was so bad that the picture had to be withdrawn. 
Thereupon Der Angriff, Goebbels's newspaper, denounced all 
those who * muttered around ' that the Nazis were now strutting 
about in the top hats they had found so reprehensible on the 
heads of their predecessors. 'These critics forget/ the com- 
mentator wrote, ' that those we once stigmatized were skunks . . . 
while those who now represent the State are men who have 
achieved a great deal in four years. An American delegation 
cannot be asked to dine on sausage and sauerkraut by people 
going around in their shirtsleeves. They must be entertained 
as they are accustomed to being entertained, for we expect 
them to put in a good word for us when they return home. 
That is why we wear top hats and cutaways. That is also why 
we build villas/ 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 113 

fBut with this all responsibility is practically excluded. 

To what consequences this now leads follows from a 
quite simple consideration : 

The internal composition of a group of these five hundred 
representatives, measured according to profession or abil- 
ities of the individual, gives a picture that is as confused 
as it is pitiful. For one cannot expect that these elected 
ones of the nation are also the elect of intellect or even of 
common sense! And I hope that one does not think that 
from the ballots cast by a body of voters which is anything 
but clever, the statesmen will come forth by hundreds! 
On the whole, one cannot contradict too sharply the 
absurd opinion that men of genius are born out of general 
elections. First, there is only one real ' statesman ' once in 
a blue moon in one nation and not a hundred or more at a 
time; and second, the masses' aversion to every superior 
genius is an instinctive one. It is easier for a camel to go 
through the eye of a needle than that a great man is 'dis- 
covered ' in an election. 

What really stands out of the norm of the great masses 
generally personally announces its arrival in world history. 

So that it is five hundred men of more than modest com- 
petence who vote on the most important concerns of the 
nation; they appoint governments which, in turn, in each 
single case and in each special question, have to obtain the 
consent of the illustrious assembly, and thus politics are 
actually made by five hundred men. 

And it usually looks like it, too. 

Even when not speaking of the genius of these people's 
representatives, one should consider the different kind of 
problems awaiting solution and how widely spread the 
fields are in which solutions and decisions are to be made, 
and one will well understand how unfit this form of govern- 
ment must be for this task which puts the right of final 
decisions into the hands of a mass assembly of people, of 



114 MEIN KAMPF 

whom only a small portion has the knowledge and experi- 
ence required by the affairs under consideration. Thus the 
most important economic measures are brought before a 
forum, while only one-tenth of its members can evidence 
any economic training. This means nothing short of plac- 
ing the final decision of affairs into the hands of men who 
entirely lack all qualification for this task. 

This is also the case with all other questions. They 
will always be decided by a majority of ignoramuses and 
incompetents, since the composition of this institution re- 
mains unchanged, while the problems to be dealt with 
extend to nearly all fields of public life, and therefore would 
require a continuous change of the deputies who have to 
judge and to decide them. It is indeed impossible to permit 
affairs of transportation to be passed upon by the same 
people who deal with a question, let us say, of high foreign 
politics. Indeed, they would all have to be universal gen- 
iuses, such hardly as come forth once in centuries. Un- 
fortunately, in most cases they are not at all ' heads, ' but 
narrow-minded, vainglorious, and arrogant amateurs, an 
intellectual demi-monde of the worst kind. From this there 
often results the inconceivable carelessness with which 
these gentlemen discuss and decide on affairs which would 
give even the greatest minds cause for careful reflection. 
Measures of the gravest importance for the future of an 
entire State, even of a nation, are taken, as though a hand 
of Schqffkopf [a game of cards especially popular in Southern 
Germany] or taroc, which would certainly suit them better, 
were before them on the table and not the fate of a race. 

But it would certainly be unjust to believe that each 
of the deputies of such a parliament was always endowed 
with so slight a feeling of responsibility. 

No, not at all. 

But because this system forces the individual to define 
his attitude towards questions for which he may not be 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 115 

suited, it gradually spoils the character. None of them 
would have enough courage to declare: 'Gentlemen, I 
think we don't understand anything about this question. 
At least I can say that with certainty as far as I am con- 
cerned. 1 (Besides, this would hardly make any difference, 
for such honesty would certainly not be understood, and 
they would hardly permit the game to be spoiled by such 
an honest ass.) Those who know human beings will under- 
stand that in such an illustrious society nobody likes to be 
the most stupid, and in certain circles, honesty is synony- 
mous with stupidity. 

Thus a representative, at first still honest, is forced into 
the path of general mendacity and deceit. The very con- 
viction that the individual's non-participation would not 
alter the matter in the least stifles any honest impulse 
which perhaps may rise in one or the other deputy. Finally, 
he will persuade himself that he is not the worst by far 
among the others and that his participation might perhaps 
even prevent greater evil. 

Of course, one will now raise the objection that the indi- 
vidual deputy has actually but little understanding for 
the one or the other matter; that in coming to a decision 
he is advised by the parliamentary faction as the leader of 
the policies of the gentlemen in question ; that this faction 
always has its special committees which are more than 
amply advised by experts. 

At first sight this seems to be correct. Then the question 
would still be: Why does one elect five hundred if only a 
few of them have sufficient wisdom to define their attitudes 
towards the most important matters? 

This, then, was the gist of the matter! [Ja, darinliegt 
eben des Pudels Kern. A paraphrase of a line in Goethe's 
Faust.} * 

It is not the object of our present-day democratic parlia- 
mentarianism to form an assembly of wise men, but rather 



116 MEIN KAMPF 

to gather a crowd of mentally dependent ciphers which 
may be more easily led in certain directions, the more lim- 
ited the intelligence of the individual. Only thus can 
parties make politics in the worse sense of the word today. 
Only thus is it also possible that the actual wirepuller is 
able to remain cautiously in the background without ever 
being personally called to account. Because no decision, 
no matter how detrimental it is to the nation, can now be 
charged to the account of a rascal who is in the public eye, 
but it is dumped on the shoulders of an entire faction. 

With this, however, all responsibility is practically re- 
moved, because it can only be the duty of an individual 
and never that of a parliamentary assembly of babblers. 

This institution can be pleasing and valuable only to 
the most mendacious sneaks who carefully shun the light 
of day, whereas it must be loathsome to every honest and 
straightforward fellow who is ready to assume personal 
responsibility. 

Therefore, this kind of democracy has become the instru- 
ment of that race which shuns the sunlight because of 
its internal aims, now and for all time. Only the Jew can 
praise an institution that is as dirty and false as he is 
himself. 

* 

This system is opposed by the true Germanic democracy 
of the free choice of a leader with the latter's obligation to 
take over fully all responsibility for what he does or does 

The legend of the 'freely chosen German leader* was proba- 
bly born in the fertile brain of Houston Stewart Chamberlain, 
a Britisher who became an uncompromising Pan-German dur- 
ing the years preceding 1914 and who buttressed this contention 
with a theory of race superiority derived in part from Count 
Arthur de Gobineau, author of books which attributed the 
success of the 'supermen' of the Renaissance to their 'Aryan' 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 117 

not do. There will be no voting by a majority on single 
questions, but only the decision of the individual who backs 
it with his life and all he has. 

If the objection were raised that under such circum- 
stances no one could be found ready to devote himself to 
such a hazardous task, there can be one reply: 

God be thanked, this is just the meaning of Germanic 
democracy, that no unworthy climber or moral shirker can 
come in the back way to rule his fellow citizens, but that 
the greatness of the position to be assumed will discourage 
incompetents and weaklings. 

But should, nevertheless, such a fellow try to sneak in, 
then he will be easily found out and ruthlessly rebuffed: 
Out with you, cowardly wretch ! Step back, you are soiling 

blood. It has since become a favorite topic of conversation. 
Not a few Nazi authors have attempted to unearth instances 
of such leadership. Favorite candidates from early Germanic 
history are Arminius, Widukind the Saxon King, and Genseric 
the Vandal chieftain. In Nazi usage the word Fuhrer (leader) 
has a very special connotation, difficult for an outsider to 
understand. The Fdhrcr is a man who gives expression to the 
divinity that is enshrined in his people a ' Traumlaller* (one 
who speaks oracularly in his dreams), in George Schott's 
phrase. Gottfried Feder, author of the Party program, once 
described the Fiihrer as follows : ' He must have a somnambu- 
listic feeling of certainty. ... In the pursuit of his goal, he must 
not shrink from bloodshed or war even/ For many, perhaps 
for himself, Hitler is the German Messiah, whose kingdom is 
to last thousands of years, even as has that of Christ. Hitler, 
too, began with a small number of disciples the first group 
was of the mystic number seven one or the other of whom 
proved unfaithful. Addressing Nazi congresses, he has fre- 
quently stressed his ability to wait until 'what is in the folk- 
sour dictates the course he is to pursue. That is why he con- 
tinuously needs assurance that the folk is actually one in spirit 



118 MEIN KAMPF 

the steps; the front stairs leading to the Pantheon of 
History is not for sneaks but for heroes! 

1 had come to this opinion after an internal struggle dur- 
ing the two years in which I visited the Viennese parlia- 
ment. 

Thereafter I never went again. 



The parliamentary r6gime had a great share in the 
progressive weakening of the old Habsburg State during 
the past few years. The more the superiority of the German 
nationality was broken up through its efforts, the more 
recourse was taken to a system of playing off the various 
nationalities against one another. In the Reichsrat this 
always was done at the expense of the Germans and so, 
in the last instance, at the expense of the realm; for at the 
turn of the century even the most simple-minded had to 
realize that the monarchy's power of attraction was no 



with him. The various plebiscites serve much the same pur- 
pose as would a mesmerist's look round to see whether the 
members of a group are joining hands. Hitler believes that 
ninety-nine per cent of the German people support him, and 
refuses to weigh evidence to the contrary. Accordingly any 
German who resists him is a pariah, a blasphemer against the 
decree of the German providence. Dr. Schuschnigg, who under- 
stood these things not at all who fully believed that if the 
Nazis gained Austria he could resume his law practice has 
been kept in confinement since March, 1938, for having sinned 
against the light. Hitler's anti-Semitism must likewise be 
weighed on this scale. It was out of gratitude to the German 
God for the successes of 1938 that he decreed the pogrom of 
November 9. He said earlier: ' I believe today that I am acting 
in the sense of the Almighty Creator: By warding off the Jew* 
I om fighting for the Lord's work' 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 119 

longer able to counteract the individual countries' en- 
deavors towards separation. 

On the contrary. 

The poorer the means became which the State had at its 
disposal for its preservation, the higher rose the general 
contempt for it. Not in Hungary alone, but also in the 
individual Slav provinces, the people felt themselves so 
little identified with the common monarchy that its weak- 
ness was not looked upon as their own disgrace. They 
rather rejoiced over the signs of approaching old age; 
because they hoped more for its death than for its con- 
valescence. 

In parliament, the complete collapse was further pre- 
vented by an undignified submission and fulfillment of all 
and every extortion, for which the Germans then had to 
pay; in the realm this was done by a clever playing-off of 
the individual nations against one another. But the gen- 
eral line of development was directed against the Germans. 
Especially since his succession to the throne began to give 
some influence to the Archduke Franz Ferdinand, order 
and organization were brought into the Czechization car- 
ried out from above. With all possible means this future 
ruler of the dual monarchy tried to facilitate and to pro- 
mote personally, or at least to shield, the de-Germanization 
of the realm. Thus purely German places were slowly but 
steadily pushed into the danger zone of mixed languages 
by roundabout official means. Even in Lower Austria this 
process began to progress rapidly, and many Czechs already 
considered Vienna as their biggest city. 

The leading idea of this Habsburg, whose family spoke 
only Czech (his wife, a former Czech countess, had married 
the prince morganatically; she came from circles in which 
the anti-German attitude was traditional) was gradually 
to form a Slav State in Central Europe to be founded on a 
strictly Catholic basis, as a protection against Orthodox 



120 MEIN KAMPF 

Russia. In this manner, as the Habsburgs had done previ- 
ously on several occasions, religion once more was placed 
in the service of a purely political idea, above all at least 
from the German point of view of an unfortunate idea. 

The result was more than deplorable in many respects. 

Neither the House of Habsburg nor the Catholic Church 
received the expected reward. 

Habsburg lost the throne, Rome a great State. 

By using religious forces for political purposes, the crown 
awakened a spirit which it had not at first thought possible. 

The attempt to extinguish Germanism in the old mon- 
archy by all possible means was answered by the Pan- 
German movement in Austria. 

fin the eighties, Manchester Liberalism, with a basic 
Jewish tendency, had reached or already passed its climax 
in the monarchy. Reaction against it came, as was the 
case with everything in old Austria, not primarily from 
social, but from national, points of view. Its instinct of 
self-preservation forced Germanism to offer the sharpest 
possible resistance. Only in the second instance economic 
considerations began to gain a decisive influence. Thus out 
of the general political muddle emerged two party forma- 
tions, the one with a more national, the other with a more 
social, tendency, but both extremely interesting and in- 
structive for the future. 

After the depressing end of the war of 1866, the House 
of Habsburg harbored the idea of a revenge on the battle- 
field. Only the death of Emperor Max [sic] of Mexico, 
whose unfortunate expedition was attributed primarily to 
Napoleon III, and whose abandonment by the French 
roused general indignation, prevented a closer co-operation 
with France. Yet Habsburg was on the watch. Had the 
war of 1870-71 not become such a uniquely victorious cam- 
paign, the Court of Vienna would probably have risked the 
bloody game of a revenge for Sadowa. But when the first 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 121 

amazing and incredible heroic tales arrived from the battle- 
fields, yet true, then the 'wisest* of all monarchs recognized 
that the hour was inconvenient, and ho had to grin and 
bear it as best he could. 

But the heroic fight of these two years had achieved a 
still greater miracle ; for the Habsburgs a changed attitude 
never corresponded to an impulse of the heart, but to the 
pressure of circumstances. The German people in the old 
Ostmark were carried away by the victorious ecstasy of the 
Reich, and, deeply moved, saw the dreams of the fore- 
fathers resurrected to glorious reality. 

For let there be no mistake : the really German-minded 
Austrian had recognized at Koeniggraetz the tragic though 
necessary condition for the resurrection of a realm which 
should not be, and which actually was not, afflicted with 
the foul marasmus of the old union. He thoroughly learned 
to understand, by his own experience, that the House of 
Habsburg had now finally ended its historical mission, and 
that the new realm was to elect as emperor only one who, 
through his heroic character, could offer a worthy head to 
the 'Crown of the Rhine/ How much more was Fate to 
be praised because it carried out this investiture on a 
member of a House which in the person of Frederick the 
Great had in times past given to the nation a brilliant 
symbol for the rise of the nation forever. &lt; 

When after the Great War the House of Habsburg 
started with utmost determination to root out, slowly but 
steadily, the dangerous Germanism of the dual monarchy 
(about whose inner conviction there could be no doubt) 
for this would mean the end of the policy of Slavization 
the resistance of this doomed people broke out in a way 
that the German history of modern times had never known. 

For the first time men with national and patriotic feel- 
ings became rebels. 

Rebels, not against the nation, not against the State as 



122 MEIN KAMPF 

such, but against a form of government which in their 
opinion was bound to lead their own nationality to its 
doom. 

For the first time in modern German history, traditional 
dynastic patriotism separated from national love for 
country and people. 

It was the merit of the Pan-German movement in Austria, 
during the nineties, that it clearly demonstrated beyond a 
doubt that a State authority can only demand respect and 
protection as long as it corresponds to the desires of a 
nationality and at least does not harm it. 

There can be no State authority as a means in itself, as 
in that case all tyranny on earth would be unassailable and 
sacred. 

If a people is led to destruction by the instrument of 
governmental power, then the rebellion on the part of each 
and every member of such a nation is not only a right but a 
duty. 

The question, however, when such a case arises, is not 
decided by theoretical treatises but by force and suc- 
cess. 

As every governmental power naturally claims the right 
of preserving the authority of the State, no matter how 
inferior it is or that it has betrayed the concerns of the 
nation a thousand times, the f olkish instinct of self-preserva- 
tion, when subduing such a power in order to gain freedom 
or independence, will have to use the same weapons with 
which the adversary is trying to hold his own. The struggle 
will be carried on with * legal ' means as long as the power to 
be overthrown uses such means; but one will not hesitate 
to use illegal weapons if the oppressor also uses them. 

But in general it should never be forgotten that not the 
preservation of a State or a government is the highest aim 
of human existence, but the preservation of its kind. 

But once the latter itself is in danger of being oppressed 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 123 

or abolished, then the question of legality plays only a 
subordinate r6le. Then it may be that the ruling power 
may use a thousand so-called 'legal' means, yet the in- 
stinct of self-preservation of the oppressed then is always 
the most sublime justification for their fighting with all 
weapons. 

Only by acknowledging the above principle were the 
wars of rebellion, against enslavement from within and 
without, carried on in such great historical examples. 

Human rights break State rights. 

But if a nation succumbs in its struggle for the rights of 
mankind, then it was probably found weighing too lightly 
in the scales of destiny to justify its good fortune of being 
allowed to continue on this mortal globe. For if a man is 
not ready or able to fight for his existence, righteous Provi- 
dence has already decreed his doom. 

The world is not intended for cowardly nations. 



fBut how easy it is for a tyranny to drape itself with 
the mantle of so-called 'legality* is again shown most 
clearly and definitely by Austria's example. 

The legal State authority of that period was rooted in 
the anti-German soil of parliament with its non-German 
majorities and also in the ruling anti-German dynasty. 
The entire State authority was incorporated in these two 
factors. To attempt to change the fate of the German- 
Austrian people from this point was nonsense. In the opin- 
ion of our admirers of the only possible 4 legal ' way and of 
the State authority itself, all resistance would have had to 
be relinquished because it could not be carried out by legal 
means. But this would have meant the end of the German 
people within the monarchy in a very short time. As a 
matter of fact the German nation was only saved from such 
a fate by the collapse of this State. 



124 MEIN KAMPF 

The bespectacled theorist, however, would rather die ior 
his doctrine than for his people. 

Because it is men who first make the laws, he thinks that 
they afterwards exist for these laws. 

To have thoroughly swept out this nonsense, much to 
the alarm of all theoretical dogmatists and other govern- 
mental insular fetishists, was the merit of the Pan-German 
movement in Austria at that time. 

As the Habsburgs tried to attack the German nationality 
with all possible means, this party in turn now attacked 
the 'exalted ' ruling house itself in the most ruthless manner. 
For the first time it probed into this foul State and opened 
the eyes of hundreds of thousands. It is to the credit 
of the party that it freed the glorious idea of patriotism 
from the embrace of this deplorable dynasty. 

At the time of its first appearance, the number of its fol- 
lowers was so enormous that it even threatened to develop 
into a very avalanche. But the success did not last. When 
I came to Vienna, the movement had long been overshad- 
owed, and had even been almost reduced to insignificance, 
by the Christian Socialist Party which had come into 
power in the meantime. &lt; 

The entire process of the rise and decline of the Pan- 
German movement, on the one hand, and of the unheard-of 
rise of the Christian Socialist Party, on the other, was to 
gain the greatest importance for me as a classical object for 
study. 

When I came to Vienna, my sympathies were fully and 
wholly on the side of the Pan-German movement. 

That one had the courage in parliament to shout 'Heil 
Hohenzollern ' impressed me as much as it infinitely pleased 
me; that one considered oneself only temporarily separated 
from the Reich, and that no occasion was overlooked to 
manifest this publicly, awakened joyous confidence in me ; 
the fact that one openly demonstrated one's opinion in all 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 125 

questions concerning German nationality and that one 
never yielded to compromises seemed to me the only way 
still open for the salvation of our people; but that the 
movement, after its first glorious rise, had sunk so deeply, 
this I could not understand. I could understand far less 
that at the same time the Christian Socialist Party was 
able to rise to such enormous power. It had just reached 
the zenith of its glory at that time. 

When I tried to compare the two movements, Fate, ac- 
celerated by my otherwise miserable situation, here also 
gave me the best instruction for the understanding of the 
causes of this riddle. 

I begin my reflections at first with the two men who 
may be looked upon as the leaders and the founders of the 
two parties : Georg von Schoenerer and Doktor Karl Lueger. 

From the purely human point of view they stand out, 
the one as well as the other, far above the frame and the 
dimensions of the so-called parliamentarian types. In the 

George von Schoenerer (1824-1921) was the mouthpiece of 
a pan-Germanistic hatred of the Jews which found expression 
in violent speeches. The beer hall was a favorite Schoenerer 
assembly room. But though his diction was crude, his followers 
were recruited from the upper middle classes and blended hatred 
of the Habsburgs and the Catholic Church with anti-Semitism. 
Nevertheless he had not a few sympathizers even among the 
clergy. Funds to support the movement were supplied by 
extremist Protestant groups in Germany, and Schoenerer him- 
self became a Protestant in a wave of secession from the 
Catholic Church that was the greatest Austria had known since 
the Reformation. The principal tenet of his political doctrine 
was that the Jews had undermined the national economy and 
therewith created the social problem, which in turn was costing 
much money. Close to Schoenerer was the Ostara group, the 
publication sponsored by whom is an important source of more 
modern anti-Semitic propaganda. 



126 MEIN KAMPF 

swamp of general political corruption, their entire lives 
remained pure and unimpeachable. Nevertheless, at first 
my personal sympathy was more with the Pan-German 
Schoenerer, and then gradually turned to the Christian 
Socialist leader. 

Comparing their abilities, Schoenerer seemed to me even 
then the better and more thorough thinker in fundamental 
problems. He recognized more clearly and more correctly 
than anyone else the inevitable end of the Austrian State. 
Had one listened more attentively to his warnings, espe- 
cially in the Reich, about the Habsburg monarchy, then 
the misfortune of the World War which placed Germany 
against all Europe would never have come. 

But if Schoenerer recognized the internal nature of the 
problems, he was wrong as regards the people. 

That was again the strength of Doktor Lueger. 

He was a rare judge of human nature, especially on his 
guard against believing that men were better than they 
were. Therefore, he took more into account the real possi- 
bilities of life, while Schoenerer showed little understanding 
for this. Everything the Pan-German thought was correct 
from the theoretical point of view; but while the force and 
the understanding were lacking with which to transmit the 
theoretical knowledge to the masses that means to 
bring it into a form which was in keeping with their per- 
ceptive ability, which is and will always be limited all 
knowledge was only prophetic wisdom and had no chance 
ever to become reality. 

This lack of an actual knowledge of human nature, 
however, led later on to an error in the evaluation of the 
forces of entire movements as well as of age-old institu- 
tions. 

But Schoenerer finally had recognized that the questions 
involved were those of various views of life, but he had not 
understood that above all only the great masses of a people 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 127 

are suited to be the bearers of such almost religious con- 
victions. 

Unfortunately, he understood only to a very small 
degree the extreme limitation of the will to fight in the so- 
called 4 bourgeois ' circles, in consequence of their economic 
situation which makes the individual fear to lose too much 
and therefore holds him back. 

And yet, a view of life may in general only hope for 
victory if the broad masses, as the bearers of the new doc- 
trine, declare themselves ready to take upon themselves 
the necessary fight. 

From this lack of understanding of the importance of 
the lower classes there resulted also a totally insufficient 
conception of the social question. 

In all this Doktor Lueger was the reverse of Schoenerer. 

His thorough knowledge of human nature made him 

The phrase 'religious faith' would seem to reflect Georges 
Sorel's theory of the revolutionary myth as expounded in his 
Reflexions sur la violence. It is improbable, however, that 
Hitler ever saw the book, and in addition there are important 
differences between Sorel's conception and Hitler's. Nor is the 
affinity with Friedrich Nietzsche, often taken for granted, in 
any sense real. It may well be that Sorel and Nietzsche induced 
many German intellectuals to join the Nazi movement, but the 
reasoning was clearly erroneous. Hitler subscribes to no 
doctrine of the superman. His strength and originality lie in 
the fact that he identifies himself with the masses in so far as 
these want to arm for national aggrandizement. It does not 
matter how much the individual component man or woman in 
these masses knows or what he or she is, so long as willingness 
is present to be subordinate to the instinct of common 'self- 
preservation* i.e., organization for the conquest of whatever 
is necessary to extend the sway of the folk as a whole. The 
leader is he who most strongly senses the needs and desires of 
the unified nation, and not he who as Nietzsche and Stefan 



128 MEIN KAMPF 

estimate the possible forces just as correctly, as he was also 
prevented by this from underestimating existing institu- 
tions, and perhaps for this very reason he learned to use 
them as instruments in attaining his aims. 

He also understood only too well that in our time the up- 
per bourgeoisie's energy for a political fight was only limited 
and not sufficient to help a great movement to victory. 
Therefore, he put the weight of his political activity on win- 
ning over those classes the existence of which was threat- 
ened, and this, therefore, became a stimulant rather than an 
impediment of the will to fight. In the same way he was in- 
clined to use all the instruments of power already existing, 
and to gain the favor of influential institutions, in order to 
be able to draw the greatest possible advantage for his own 
movement from such old-established sources of power. 

So he based his party primarily on the middle classes 
which were threatened with extinction, and so assured him- 
self a group of followers almost impossible to unnerve, 
filled with a readiness for sacrifice as well as with a tough 
fighting strength. His infinitely clever policy towards the 
Catholic Church won for him in a short time the younger 
clergy to such an extent that the old Clerical Party was 
either forced to leave the battlefield or, more wisely still, 
to join the new party in order thus slowly to regain one po- 
sition after the other. 

If one were to consider this the sole characteristic of his 



George believed makes use of the * slaves ' in order to assure 
the triumph and happiness of a more regal aristocracy than 
the world has known. In short, for all his elements of patriotic 
mysticism, Hitler is no Platonist, but a Spartan in the simplest 
sense. That is why Germans have found it so difficult to resist 
him. As one of them has put it, ' He flatters us all into acqui- 
escence.' It may be added that when Hitler says that the 
'psyche of the masses is feminine/ he is echoing Gustav Le Bon. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 129 

nature, one would do him a grave injustice. For to the 
clever tactician were added the qualities of a really great 
and ingenious reformer. Also here, of course, his actions 
were limited by the exact knowledge of already existing pos- 
sibilities and also by the abilities of his own person. 

It was an infinitely practical goal which this really im- 
portant man had set for himself. He wanted to conquer 
Vienna. Vienna was the heart of the monarchy, and it was 
from this city that the last bit of vitality went out into the 
ailing and aging body of the decaying realm. The healthier 
the heart should become, the more freshly would the rest of 
the body revive. A fundamentally correct idea, which, how- 
ever, was applicable only for a prescribed and limited 
time. 

And therein lay the weakness of this man. 

What he achieved, as mayor of the city of Vienna, is im- 
mortal in the best sense of the word ; however, he was not 
able to save the monarchy, it was too late. 

This his adversary Schoenerer had realized more 
clearly. 

Doktor Lueger succeeded in everything he attacked prac- 
tically ; the result he had hoped for did not come. 

Schoenerer did not succeed in what he wanted, but what 
he feared occurred in an only too terrible manner. 

Thus neither man achieved his broader goal. Lueger 
was no longer able to save Austria, and Schoenerer could 
not save the German people from decline. 

Now, it is infinitely instructive for our time to study the 
causes of this failure of both parties. This is especially use- 
ful for my friends, as in many points circumstances are to- 
day similar to those of that period, and thus mistakes may 
be avoided which had already brought about the end of the 
first movement and the frustration of the second. 

In my eyes there were three causes for the collapse of the 
Pan-German movement in Austria : 



130 MEIN KAMPF 

First, the confused conception of the importance of social 
problems for a new party, the inner nature of which was 
revolutionary. 

Inasmuch as Schoenerer primarily turned to the bour- 
geois classes, the result could only be a very weak and tame 
one. 

The German bourgeoisie in its higher circles, though the 
individual is not aware of this, is pacifistic to the degree of 
self-denial, where the domestic affairs of the nation or of the 
State are concerned. In good times that means in times 
under a good government such an attitude is a reason for 
the extreme value which these classes have for the State; 
in times of bad government, however, it has a really de- 
vastating effect. In order to make the carrying-out of a 
really serious struggle possible at all, the Pan-German move- 
ment should have devoted itself to winning over the masses. 
The fact that it did not do so took from it at the beginning 
the elementary impetus that such a wave requires if it is 
not to ebb after even a short time. 

But as soon as this principle is not observed and carried 
out from the beginning, the new party loses all chances to 



This passage gains in interest when one compares it with the 
tactic adopted by the Nazis after their political victory of 
September, 1930. They now entered the Reichstag in hitherto 
unparalleled numbers; but from the beginning they refused to 
accept any responsibility for what was being done and con- 
tinuously disrupted and hampered the proceedings. Some 
individual members were willing to share the burden of legisla- 
tive activity, but they were not permitted to have their way. 
Initially the 107 elected parliamentarians had marched into the 
Reichstag clad in brown uniforms. Outside the building, groups 
of partisans demonstrated, and when police detachments ap- 
peared they marched off to the Leipzigerstrasse and smashed 
the windows of Jewish shops. Later disturbances were even 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 131 

make up later for what it had neglected. For now, with 
the admission of extremely great and moderate bourgeois 
elements, the internal attitude of the movement will always 
shape itself towards these, and thus it will lose all hope of 
ever winning any worth-while forces from the great masses 
of the population. What is more such a movement will not 
get over the stage of pale [sic] grumbling and criticizing. 
The more or less almost religious belief, combined with a 
similar readiness for sacrifice, will never be found again; 
whereas it might probably be replaced by the endeavor to 
polish gradually the harsh sides of the struggle by ' positive* 
co-operation; that means, in this case, by recognition of 
given facts, so that finally one will arrive at a foul peace. 

So it also happened to the Pan-German movement, be- 
cause it had not laid enough stress on winning its followers 
from the circles of the great masses at the start. It achieved 
a ' bourgeois dignity, mutedly radical/ 

From this mistake resulted the second cause of its rapid 
decline. 

The German nationality's situation in Austria was al- 
ready desperate at the time when the Pan-German move- 
ment appeared. From year to year parliament had become 
an instrument for the gradual destruction of the German 
people. Only the abolition of this institution could promise 



more grotesque. But with Hindenburg's re-election in 1931 the 
prestige of the Nazi Party began to fade, only to be revived 
again when Chancellor Brtining was dismissed and the govern- 
ment entrusted to Franz von Papen against the will of the 
Reichstag. Papen thereupon systematically undermined the 
Republic, so that it was virtually defenseless when in 1933 
Hitler was entrusted with the government. Had it not been for 
this sudden change in the German leadership, Hitler might 
eventually have been compelled to seek a status as a normal 
political leader and try his hand at the parliamentarian game. 



132 MEIN KAMPF 

moderate success in any attempted salvation in the elev- 
enth hour. 

fWith this the movement was approached by a question 
that was important in principle. 

In order to destroy parliament, was one to go into it and 
' to hollow it out from within/ as one was accustomed to ex- 
press it, or was one to lead this fight from the outside by 
attacking the institution as such? 

One went in and came out beaten. 

Of course, one had to go in. 

To carry out the fight against such an institution from the 
outside means to arm oneself with unshakable courage, and 
also to be ready for unheard-of sacrifices. This means to 
seize the bull by the horns and to receive many blows, to 
fall to the ground sometimes, and perhaps to rise again with 
broken bones, and only after the hardest struggle will vic- 
tory turn to the courageous aggressor. Only the greatness 
of the sacrifices will win new fighters for the cause, till per- 
severance finally receives the reward of success. 

But for this one needs the children from the great masses 
of the nation. 

They alone are determined and tough enough to fight this 
struggle to the bloody end. 

But the Pan-German movement did not possess these 
broad masses; thus it had no other choice but to go into 
parliament. 

It would be wrong to believe that this decision had been 
the result of long mental agonies or even reflections; no, 
one did not think of anything else. The participation in 
this nonsense was only the sediment of general and confused 
conceptions of the importance and the effect of participa- 
tion in an institution which had already been recognized as 
being fundamentally wrong. In general, one probably 
hoped for relief in the work of the enlightenment of the 
great masses, because now one had an opportunity to speak 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 133 

before the 'forum of the entire nation/ Further, it seemed 
evident that it was more successful to attack the evil at the 
root than from the outside. By protection through im- 
munity one believed the security of the individual protago- 
nist would be strengthened, so that the force of the attack 
could only be increased thereby. 

But in reality things came about quite differently. &lt; 

The forum before which the Pan-German deputies spoke 
had not become greater but rather smaller; for everybody 
speaks only before the audience that is able to hear him, or 
that receives a description of what has been said through 
the reports of the press. 

But the greatest direct audience is not represented by the 
hall of parliament, but by the great public meeting. 

For there, there will be thousands of people who have 
only come to hear what the speaker has to say, whereas in 
the session hall of the House of Deputies there are only a 
few hundred, whose chief reason for coming is only to re- 
ceive their remuneration and not to let themselves be en- 
lightened by the wisdom of the one or the other of the ' peo- 
ple's representative.' 

But above all : 

It is always the same public which will never add to its 
knowledge, not only because it lacks the brains for this, but 
also the necessary, though modest, will power. 

Never will one of these deputies willingly do better [$ic] 
truth the honor of entering its service. 

No, not one of them will do that, except he hopes to save 
or to regain his mandate for a further session. For as soon 
as it is in the air that the existing party will not do very 
well in a coming election, only then will these ornaments of 
manliness set out to see how they can gain the other, prob- 
ably winning party or direction, whereby this change of po- 
sition takes place under a cloudburst of moral motivations. 
Therefore, whenever an existing party seems to be out of 



134 MEIN KAMPF 

the people's favor to the extent that an annihilating defeat 
is threatened, a great migration begins: the parliamentary 
rats leave the party ship. 

This has nothing to do with greater knowledge or will 
power, but with that clairvoyant ability which warns such 
a parliamentary bedbug just in time, so that it can let itself 
drop on another warm party bed. 

To speak before such a 4 forum* means really to cast 
pearls before certain well-known animals. This is really not 
worth while. The result cannot be other than naught. 

This, then, was actually the case. 

The Pan-German deputies could talk on till their throats 
were hoarse; the effect was naught. 

The press, however, passed over it in silence or mutilated 
the speeches in a way that every connection, even often 
their meaning, was lost or distorted, so that public opinion 
was given only a very poor picture of the intentions of the 
new movement. It was of no importance whatsoever what 
the individual gentlemen now said; the importance rested 
in what one read of them. But this was only an abstract of 
their speeches, which, in its tattered condition, was nothing 
but nonsense and so it was intended. But the only forum 
before which they actually spoke consisted of barely five 
hundred parliamentarians, and that says enough. 

But the worst was the following: 

The Pan-German movement could hope for success only 
if it realized from the very first day that the question in- 
volved was not that of a new party but that of a new view of 
life. The latter alone was able to summon the internal 
strength to fight out this gigantic struggle. But for this 
only the best and the most courageous characters are suited 
to act as leaders. 

If the fight for a new view of life is not led by heroes will- 
ing to sacrifice themselves, then no more will death-defying 
fighters be found. He who in such a case fights for his 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 135 

own existence cannot have much consideration left for the 
community. 

fBut in order to preserve this assumption, it is necessary 
for everybody to know that the new movement has nothing 
to offer to the present except the honor and the fame of 
posterity. The more easily-to-be-won positions such a 
movement has to offer, the greater will be the onrush of in- 
ferior stuff, till finally these political jobbers overcrowd a 
successful political party in such numbers that the honest 
fighter of an earlier time no longer recognizes the old move- 
ment, so that the newcomers themselves decidedly reject 
him as an unwelcome ' intruder/ 

With this the ' mission ' of such a movement is finished. 

From the moment the Pan-German movement sold itself 
to parliament, it gained 'parliamentarians' instead of lead- 
ers and fighters. 

Thus it deteriorated to the level of ordinary political 
parties of the day and lost the force to oppose a catastrophic 
destiny with the defiance of martyrdom. Instead. of fight- 
ing, it now learned to 'speak' and to 'negotiate.' The new 
parliamentarian considered it, within a short time, a nicer 
duty, because it involved less risk, to fight for the new view 
of life with the ' intellectual ' weapons of parliamentary elo- 
quence than to throw himself into a fight, and possibly 
risking his own life, whose end was uncertain and in any 
case did not promise any gain. 

But as now the party was in parliament, the followers out- 
side began to hope and to wait for miracles, which, of course, 
never happened and never could happen. Therefore, they 
became impatient within a short time; for also what one 
heard of one's own deputies in no way corresponded with 
the expectations of the voters. This was only too natural, 
as the hostile press took heed not to report a true-to-life 
picture of the Pan-German representative to the people. 

But the more the new deputies began to find palatable 



136 MEIN KAMPF 

the rather mild form of 'revolutionary* fight in parliament 
and the diet, the less were they ready to return to the more 
dangerous work of enlightening the nation's great masses. 

Therefore, the mass meeting, being direct and personal, 
and which was the only way of exercising a really effective 
influence and which, therefore, alone could enable the win- 
ning of great parts of the nation, was pushed more and more 
into the background. 

Once the beer table of the meeting hall was exchanged for 
the platform of parliament, so that from this exalted forum 
speeches could be poured into the heads of the so-called 
'elected representatives' instead of into the people, the 
Pan-German movement ceased to be a people's movement 
and gradually sank into a club for academic discussion, to 
be taken more or less seriously. 

Now also the bad impression that the press had rendered 
was in no way repaired by the personal assembly activity of 
the various gentlemen, so that finally the word 4 Pan-Ger- 
man' had a very bad sound in the ears of the great public. 

For let it be said to all knights of the pen and to all the 
political dandies, especially of today : the greatest changes in 
this world have never yet been brought about by a goose- 
quill! 

No, the pen has always been reserved to motivate these 
changes theoretically. 

But the power which set the greatest historical avalanches 
of political and religious nature sliding was, from the begin- 
ning of time, the magic force of the spoken word alone. 

The great masses of a nation will always and only suc- 
cumb to the force of the spoken word. But all great move- 
ments are movements of the people, are volcanic eruptions 
of human passions and spiritual sensations, stirred either by 
the cruel Goddess of Misery or by the torch of the word 
thrown into the masses, and are not the lemonade-like out- 
pourings of aestheticizing literati and drawing-room heroes. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 137 

Only a storm of burning passion can turn people's des- 
tinies, but only he who harbors passion in himself can arouse 
passion. 

Passion alone will give to him, who is chosen by her, the 
words that, like beats of a hammer, are able to open the 
doors to the heart of a people. 

He to whom passion is denied and whose mouth remains 
closed is not chosen by Heaven as the prophet of its will. 

Therefore, may every writer remain by his inkwell in 
order to work 'theoretically' if his brains and ability are 
sufficient for this ; such writers are neither born nor chosen 
to become leaders. 

Every movement with great aims has anxiously to watch 
that it may not lose connection with the great masses. 

It has to examine every question primarily from this 
point of view and to make decisions in this direction. 

Further, it has to avoid everything that could diminish 
or even weaken its ability to influence the masses; perhaps 
not for 'demagogic* reasons, no, but because of the simple 
realization that without the enormous power of the masses 
of a people no great idea, no matter how sublime and lofty 
it may appear, is realizable. 

Hard reality alone conditions the way that leads to 
every goal; shunning disagreeable ways means, in this 
world, only too often to renounce the goal; one may wish 
this or not. 

As soon as the Pan-German movement, because of its 
parliamentary position, began to place the weight of its ac- 
tivity upon parliament instead of upon the people, it lost 
its future and won cheap successes of the moment. 

It chose the easier fight, and therewith it was no longer 
worthy of the ultimate victory. 

Already in Vienna I had thought most thoroughly about 
just this question, and in its non-recognition I saw one of 
the causes for the decline of the movement whose mission. 



138 MEIN KAMPF 

in my eyes, was to take the leadership of Germanity into 
its hands. 

The first two mistakes which made the Pan-German 
movement fail were related to each other. The lack of 
knowledge of the internal driving forces of great changes 
led to an insufficient evaluation of the importance of the 
great masses of the people ; from this resulted the scanty in- 
terest in the social question, the deficient and insufficient 
courting of the soul of the nation's lower classes, but also 
the attitude towards parliament that favored this condi- 
tion. 

If one had recognized the tremendous power which at all 
times is due to the masses as the bearer of revolutionary 
resistance, one would certainly have applied a different 
policy as regards social and propagandistic directions. Then 
the center of weight of this movement would not have been 
removed to the parliament, but stressed in the workshops 
and streets. 

But the third mistake also bears the ultimate germ in the 
non-recognition of the value of the masses, which, like a 
fly-wheel, gives impetus and uniform continuance to the 
force of the attack, once they have been set in motion in one 
certain direction by superior minds. &lt; 

The serious struggle that the Pan-German movement 
had to fight out with the Catholic Church can be explained 
only by the insufficient understanding which one had for 
the spiritual disposition of the people. 

The new party's violent attacks against Rome were 
caused by the following: 

As soon as the House of Habsburg had reached the final 
determination to transform Austria into a Slavic State, it 
took up every means that seemed suitable in this direction. 
Religious institutions also were dishonestly taken into the 
service of the neW 'idea of State* by the most unscrupulous 
of all dynasties. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 139 

The use of Czech pastorates and their spiritual pastors 
was only one of the many means to reach the goal of Aus- 
tria's general Slavization. 

The procedure involved was about the following: 

In purely German parishes Czech pastors were appointed 
who slowly but steadily began to put the interests of the 
Czech nation above those of the Church, thus becoming 
germ cells of the process of de-Germanization. 

Unfortunately, the German clergy almost failed com- 
pletely in the face of such a procedure. Not only that the 
clergy themselves were entirely unfit for a similar struggle 
from the German point of view ; they were not able to meet 
the attacks of the other with the necessary resistance. Thus, 
by way of religious abuse on the one hand, the German na- 
tion was not well enough defended on the other hand, and 
was being pushed back slowly but incessantly. 

If this happened in small matters, unfortunately the sit- 
uation in general was not very different. 

Here, too, the anti-German attempts of the Habsburgs 
did not meet the necessary resistance, especially on the 
part of the higher clergy, while the representation of the 
German interests was pushed completely into the back- 
ground. 

The general impression could but be that this was a bru- 
tal infringement on German rights by the Catholic clergy 
as such. 

With this, however, the Church did not seem to feel with 
the German people, but seemed unjustly to take sides with 
its enemies. The root of the evil was, especially in Schoener- 
er's opinion, that the head of the Catholic Church was not 
in Germany, a fact which accounted for the hostility to- 
wards the concerns of our nationality. 

The so-called cultural problems were almost completely 
pushed into the background, as was the case with nearly 
everything in Austria at that time Decisive for the atti- 



140 MEIN KAMPF 

tude of the Pan-German movement towards the Catholic 
Church was far less the Church's attitude against, perhaps, 
science, etc., than, what is more, its insufficient representa- 
tion of German rights, and, on the other hand, its continued 
advancement of especially Slavic arrogance and greed. 

Now, George Schoenerer was not the man to do things by 
halves. He took up the fight against the Church with the 
conviction that only thus could the German people perhaps 
still be saved. The ' Los-von-Rom 9 movement seemed the 
most powerful, but also the most difficult, procedure of at- 
tack destined to smash the fortress of the enemy. If it was 
successful, then the unfortunate schism of the Church in 
Germany was overcome, and the internal strength of the 
Reich and the German nation could not fail to gain enor- 
mously by such a victory. 

But neither the assumption nor the conclusion of this 
fight was correct. 

In all questions concerning the German nationality, the 
national resistance of the Catholic clergy of German na- 
tionality was undoubtedly weaker than that of their non- 
German brethren, especially the Czechs. 

Also, only an ignoramus could fail to see that the Ger- 
man clergy never so much as thought of an active represen- 
tation of German interests. 

Also, everyone who was not blind had to admit that this 
was due first of all to a circumstance from which we Ger- 
mans all have to suffer severely; it is the objectivity of our 
attitude towards our nationality as well as towards anything 
else. 

Just as the Czech clergyman has an attitude that is sub- 
jective towards his people and only objective towards the 
Church, thus the German clergyman was subjective to- 
wards the Church and objective towards the nation. It 
was a fact which we may unfortunately observe in thou- 
sands of other cases. 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 141 

This is in no way a special hereditary feature of Cathol- 
icism, but in our country it eats into almost any, especially 
governmental or idealistic institutions. 

Compare the attitude which our officials show towards 
the attempts of a national rebirth with that which in such 
a case the officials of another nation would show. Or does 
one believe that the officers' corps of the rest of the world 
would in a similar way place the concerns of their nation in 
the background with the phrase of 'State authority/ as has 
been our custom for these past five years, a fact that is even 
looked upon as especially meritorious? Do not both reli- 
gions today, for instance, take an attitude towards the 
Jewish question that neither answers the concerns of the 
nation nor the real needs of religion? Compare the attitude 
of a Jewish rabbi towards all questions, even of only minor 
importance for Judaism as a race, with that of the far 
greater part of our clergy, but, if you please, of both reli- 
gions! 

We find this symptom whenever the representation of an 
abstract idea is involved. 

'State authority/ 'democracy/ 'pacifism/ 'international 
solidarity/ etc., are all conceptions which in our country 
nearly always turn into stiff, purely doctrinary notions, so 
that every judgment of the general national necessities of 
life originates exclusively from their point of view. 

This unfortunate way of looking at all concerns from the 
angle of a previously accepted idea kills all ability to think 
subjectively of a thing that is objectively contradictory to 
one's own doctrine, and eventually it leads to a complete 
reversal of means and end. Then one will turn against 
every attempt at a national rising if this could take place 
only after first doing away with an inefficient, destructive 
regime, as this would mean an offense against 'State au- 
thority/ but since 'State authority' is not a means to an 
end, but in the eyes of such an 'objective' fanatic it repre- 



142 MEIN KAMPF 

sents the end itself, that is sufficient to fill out his entire 
miserable life. Then one will indignantly resist an at- 
tempted dictatorship, even if it were Frederick the Great, 
and if the State artists of a parliamentary majority were 
only inefficient dwarfs or even inferior scoundrels, because 
to such a stickler for principles the law of democracy seems 
more sacred than the welfare of a nation. The one, there- 
fore, will protect the worst tyranny that ruins a people, as 
for the moment it represents the 'State authority/ while 
the other rejects even the most blessed government, as 
long as it does not represent his idea of 'democracy.' 

In exactly the same way our German pacifist will pass 
over in silence the most bloody rape of the nation, it may 
come from even the fiercest military powers, if a change of 

At no time was German pacifism more highly developed than 
pacifism was in any other country subscribing to the principles 
of civilization. But it is true that the Social Democrats had 
taught international worker solidarity more ardently than 
had some other Socialist groups, though they too barring 
a few leaders succumbed to the enthusiasm of 1914. Later 
on, when doubts concerning the War began to arise, some of the 
older feeling returned and the dissident leaders were able to 
muster considerable strength. Christian pacifism, on the other 
hand, was after the War given a powerful impetus by the Peace 
Encyclicals of the Pope, which made an impression on Catho- 
lics and Protestants alike. The coming of Hitler to power 
naturally spelled the end of such efforts. All members of pacifist 
organizations which did not question the legitimacy of 
national defense in a just war were penalized. A number 
of professors were dismissed from the universities, and State 
employees were thrown out of office whenever the label of 
pacifist could be affixed to them. The most sensational instance 
was the trial of Professor Friedrich Dessauer in 1933, when the 
Center Party statesman was subjected to imprisonment and loss 
of property for alleged pacifist activity. 




POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 143 

this lot could be brought about only by resistance, that 
means force, for this would be contrary to the spirit of his 
peace league. But the international German socialist may 
be robbed conjointly by the other world; he accepts it with 
fraternal affection and does not think oij^m^a^pr even 
mere protest, because he is a Ger 

This may be deplorable, but to 
means first to understand it. 

The same is the case with the] 
concerns by a part of the clergy. | 

This is neither wicked nor ma 
caused by orders from, let us sa) 
national determination in which 
a defective education for GermanisnT 
well as a complete submission to the i 
an idol. 

Education for democracy, for international socialism, 
for pacifism, etc., is such a stiff and exclusive one and so 
purely subjective from these various points of view, that 
therefore the whole picture of the remaining part of the 
world is also influenced by this principal conception, while 
from childhood on the attitude towards the German nation 
has been merely objective. Thus the pacifist, by giving him- 
self subjectively and entirely to his idea, in face of any 
threat to his people no matter how unjust and serious it 
may be (as long as he is a German), will always look first for 
the objective right and he never will join the ranks and fight 
with his flock out of pure instinct for self-preservation. 

How far this is true for the various denominations as 
well, the following shows: 

Protestantism represents the concerns of the German na- 

This point was to prove of the greatest importance. Lutheran 
teaching on the subject of baptism -- which is regarded as the 
greatest sacrament is that through baptism equality of 



144 MEIN KAMPF 

tion in a better way, so far as this is already rooted in its 
birth and later tradition; but it breaks down in the moment 
when the defense of these national interests take place in a 
field which is not included in the general line of its ideal 
world and traditional development, or which perhaps is 
rejected for some reason or other. 

Thus Protestantism will always interest itself in the pro- 
motion of all things Gertnan as such, whenever it is a mat- 
ter of inner purity or increasing national sentiment, the de- 
fense of German^ life, the German language and German 
liberty, as all this is also rooted firmly in Protestantism; 



status before God and in the Church is conferred on men. 
Difference of race and endowment may and do subsist, but 
they are not of essential importance. Moreover, the sacred 
ministry is open to all who have been baptized and are called. 
Therewith Lutheranism denies the priority of race. When 
Hitler came to power, he immediately tried to place the 
governance of the Lutheran Church in the hands of men who 
were willing to alter the traditional teaching. A large group of 
'German Christians' who subscribed to Hitler's views were 
recruited, and their representative Pastor Ludwig M tiller 
was named Archbishop at the command of the government. 
The majority of German theologians refused, however, to 
accept so drastic a tampering with their creed. Gradually they 
formed the Confessional Synod, and this has until now 
despite all pressure and suffering clung resolutely to the 
orthodox point of view. The best-known spokesman for this 
point of view is Pastor Martin Niemoller, who was imprisoned 
by command of Hitler and is still held in virtually solitary 
confinement; but there are hundreds of clergymen who have 
learned to know the meaning of opposition. More than twelve 
hundred of their number have gone to prison; some are dead. 
The crisis through which Lutherism is passing is unquestion- 
ably the gravest in its history. Cf. Der Kampfder cvangelischen 
Kircke in Deutschland. by Arthur Frey (Zollikon, 1937). 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 145 

but it will immediately and sharply fight every attempt at 
saving the nation from the grip of its most deadly enemy, 
as its attitude towards Judaism is fixed more or less by 
dogma. But this involves a question without the solution 
of which all attempts at a German renaissance or a national 
revival are and will remain absurd and impossible, 
f During my time at Vienna I had enough leisure and op- 
portunity to examine this question also without prejudice, 
and in daily contacts I was able to determine the direction 
of this opinion in a thousand ways. 

In this focus of the various nationalities, it was shown 
most clearly that only the German pacifist tries to look ob- 
jectively at the concerns of his own nation, but the Jew, for 
instance, will never do the same with those of the Jewish 
people; that only the German socialist is ' international' 
in a sense that forbids him to ask for justice for his people 
other than by whining and moaning before his international 
comrades, but never the Czech or the Pole, etc. ; in short, I 
recognized even then that the misfortune is to be sought 
only partly in those doctrines, but, for the other part, in 
our entirely insufficient education for our own nationality 
as a whole, and, conditioned by this, in a weakened devo- 
tion to the latter. 

This eliminated the first purely theoretical motivation of 
the fight of the Pan-German movement against Cathol- 
icism in itself. 

One should educate the German people, from childhood 

These words seem to define Hitler's point of view at the time 
this book was written, and doubtless reflects the situation in 
which he found himself in the Bavaria of 1923. The statements 
here made aroused the ire of General Ludendorff, already then 
a violent opponent of Rome and the Jesuits, and were dealt 
with in magazine articles in which the General accused Hitler 
of having 'sold out' to Rome. The Fuhrer was at the time un* 



146 MEIN KAMPF 

on, to the exclusive acknowledgment of the right of their 
own nationality, and one should not poison the children's 
hearts with the curse of our 'objectivity/ also in matters of 
the preservation of the ego, so that after a short time it will 
be seen (provided there exists also a radical national gov- 
ernment) that, as in Ireland, Poland, or France, in Germany 
also a Catholic will always be a German. 

The most convincing proof for this was offered at a time 
when for the last time our people were summoned, for the 
protection of its existence, before the tribunal of History 
for its struggle for life or death. 

As long as the leadership from above did not fail, the peo- 
ple fulfilled their duty in the most overwhelming manner. 
Whether they were Protestant or Catholic clergy, they both 
had an immensely large share in preserving for so long a 
time our force of resistance not only at the front but even 



certain of what the future might bring, and is known to have 
interviewed leaders of the Bavarian People's Party (Catholic) 
concerning the terms under which he might be admitted to that 
organization. Heiden puts the matter somewhat differently, 
suggesting that Hitler had merely been trying to get permission 
to reorganize the Nazi Party. In addition one of the best 
friends the Nazis had in the Bavarian regular army was General 
Franz von Epp, a Catholic who would have frowned on any- 
thing smacking of religious warfare. 

Perhaps it is not possible as yet to substantiate the state- 
ment in full the change in Hitler's personal attitude is 
attributable primarily to the conversion of Cardinal Faulhaber, 
Archbishop of Munich, from monarchist restorationism to 
democracy and pacifism. The Cardinal proclaimed this new 
attitude in a sensational open letter which implied criticism 
of the Nazis. In addition Hitler had come more under the 
influence of Alfred Rosenberg, whose ideas on racialism and 
religion have since become standard Party fare. At any 
rate, the Catholic Church took up in earnest the fight against 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 147 

more so at home. During these years, especially during the 
first flare-up, there existed for both camps only one single 
and sacred German Reich, and everyone turned to his own 
heaven for its existence and future. 

There is one question which the Pan-German movement 
in Austria ought to have asked itself: Is the preservation of 
the German nation in Austria possible under a Catholic 
faith? If it is possible, then the political party had no right 
to occupy itself with religious or even denominational af- 
fairs; if not, however, then a religious reformation had to 
set in, and not a political party. 

He who believes he may arrive at a religious reformation 
by the roundabout way of a political organization only 
shows that he really has not the slightest idea of the way in 
which religious conceptions or even dogmas originate and 
their effect upon the Church. 



the Nazi creed after the triumphant elections of 1930. A 
number of pastoral letters denounced the errors contained in 
the Party program and in the books of important leaders; and 
late in 1930 the Ordinary of the diocese of Mayence refused to 
grant Catholic burial to a Nazi. After Hitler came to powei , 
all this was changed. The Bishops revised their attitude; 
a Concordat was signed with the Holy See. Even more re- 
cently some Catholic leaders have professed to believe that 
a modus vivendi with Hitler might be reached. 

We possess authentic records of Chancellor Hitler's private 
views of the religious situation. One of these may be cited in 
part: 'Hitler said concerning Catholic opposition, especially in 
Bavaria, that its fomentors were wasting their time. They 
might as well stop pipe-dreaming. He would not follow the 
example of Bismarck. He was a Catholic. Providence had 
arranged that. Bismarck had failed because he had been 
a Protestant and Protestants have no conception of what the 
Catholic Church is. The important thing was to sense what 



148 MEIN KAMPF 

Here one really cannot serve two masters. In this, I con- 
sider the foundation or the destruction of a religion essen- 
tially more important than the foundation or destruction 
of a State, let alone a party. 

But one must not say that this was only the warding- 
off of attacks from the other side! 

It is certain that at all times unscrupulous people did not 
shrink from making religion a tool of their political business 
affairs (for this is almost exclusively and nearly always the 
main object of such fellows) ; and it is equally certain that it 
would be wrong to hold religion or a denomination responsi- 
ble for a number of scoundrels who abuse it just as surely as 
they would very probably abuse anything else placed into 
the service of their base instincts. 

Nothing would suit such a parliamentary good-for- 



people felt in religious matters and what endeared the Church 
to them. If the clerical caste would not disappear voluntarily, 
he would direct propaganda against the Church until people 
would be unable to hide their disgust when the word ' Church ' 
was mentioned. Why, it was necessary only to make Church 
history popular. He would have films made. Looking at them 
the German people would see how the clergy had exploited 
them, lived off them. How they had sucked the money out of 
the country. How they had worked hand in glove with the 
Jews, how they had practiced immoral vice, how they had 
spread lies. These films would be so interesting that everybody 
would itch to see them. He would make the clergy ridiculous. 
He would expose all the tangled mass of corruption, selfishness 
and deceit of which they had been guilty. Let the bourgeoisie 
tear its hair. He would have the youth and the people on his 
side. He would guarantee that if he set his mind to it, he could 
destroy the Church in a few years. The whole institution 
was just a hollow shell. One good kick, and it would tumble 
together in a heap.' 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 149 

nothing and sluggard better than if he were offered an op- 
portunity, at least later, of having some justification for 
his political wirepulling. 

For, as soon as religion or a denomination is made re- 
sponsible for his personal wickedness and is attacked for 
this reason, such a mendacious fellow will clamor aloud and 
call the world to witness how justified his actions were, and 
that the salvation of religion and church is due to him and 
to his eloquence alone. His fellow citizens, as stupid as they 
are forgetful, will not recognize the real orginator of the en- 
tire dispute, merely because of the great noise he makes, or 
they will no longer remember him, and so the scoundrel has 
actually achieved his goal. 

Such a sly fox knows only too well that this has nothing 
whatsoever to do with religion, and he will therefore laugh 
up his sleeve, while his honest and less skilled adversary 
loses the game, so that some day, despairing of faith and 
loyalty in mankind, he will withdraw from everything. 

But also in another direction it would be unjust to make 
religion as such or even the Church responsible for the mis- 
takes of various individuals. One should compare the visi- 
ble greatness of the organization which one has before one- 
self with the average faultiness of men in general, and one 
will have to admit that the proportion between good and 
bad is here perhaps better than anywhere else. Even among 
the priests there are certainly such to whom their sacred 
office is only the instrument for the gratification of their 
political ambition, and who, in the political fight, forget in 
a more than deplorable manner that they should be the 
guardians of a higher truth and not the promoters of lies 
and calumnies but such an unworthy individual is out- 
weighed, on the other hand, by a thousand and more honest 
pastors, most faithfully devoted to their mission, who stand 
out like little islands in a communal swamp in our menda- 
cious and demoralized time. 



150 MEIN KAMPF 

However little I condemn the Church as such, or may, if 
perhaps a demoralized villain in a priest's frock offends 
morality in an unclean fashion, just as little may I condemn 
another among the many who befouls and betrays his na- 
tionality in times when this is almost a daily practice any- 
how. Especially today one should not forget that for one 
such an Ephialtes there are thousands who with bleeding 
hearts sympathize with the misfortune of their people and 
who, just like the best of our nation, long for the hour when 
at last Heaven will smile on us again. 

But to him who now answers that the problems involved 
are not everyday trifles but questions of essential truth or 
dogmatic content, one can only give the necessary reply by 
another question : 

If you believe yourself to be chosen by Destiny to an- 
nounce the truth, then do so; but then have the courage to 
do so not by way of a political party for this is also wire- 
pulling but instead of the present 'worse* place your 
'better' of tomorrow! 

But if you lack the courage to do so, or if you are uncer- 
tain about your 'better,' then keep your hands off; in any 
case do not try to do by roundabout sneaking through a 
political movement what you would not dare to do with 
your visor open. &lt; 

Political parties have nothing to do with religious prob- 
lems, as long as these are not hostile to the nation and do not 
undermine the ethics and morality of their own race; just 
as religion is not to be combined with the absurdity of politi- 
cal parties. 

Whenever ecclesiastical dignitaries make use of religious 
institutions or doctrines in order to harm their nationality, 
one should not follow them and fight them with the same 
weapons. 

To the political leader the religious doctrines and institutions 
of his people should always be inviolable, or else he ought not to 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 151 

be a politician but should become a reformer, provided he is 
made of the right stuff I 

Any other attitude would lead to a catastrophe, especially 
in Germany. 

While studying the Pan-German movement and its fight 
against Rome, at that time and especially in the course of 
the following years, I came to the following conclusion: 
The party of that time, through its limited understanding 
of the importance of social problems, lost the masses of the 
people that were really fit to fight; joining parliament de- 
prived it of its enormous impetus and burdened it with all 
the weaknesses of that institution ; it made itself impossible 
in numerous small and medium circles through its fight 
against the Catholic Church, thus robbing itself of innumer- 
able of the best elements which the nation can call its 
own. 

The practical result of the Austrian Kulturkampf was 
equal to nil. 

t However, one succeeded in tearing away from the Church 
almost one hundred thousand members, but she did not suf- 
fer any particular loss because of this. She really did not 
have to shed any tears for the lost 'lambs'; for the Church 
lost only what for a long time had not fully belonged to her 
internally. This was the difference between the new refor- 
mation and the old one : that once many of the best of the 
Church turned away from it because of their inner religious 
conviction, while now only those went who were not only 
lukewarm, but for 'considerations' of a political nature. 

But even from the political point of view the result was 
just as ridiculous and yet again saddening. 

Once more a political movement, promising success and 
salvation to the German nation, had perished, because it 
had not been led with the necessary ruthless sobriety, but 
lost itself in directions that were bound to lead to disunion. 

For one thing is certainly true: 



152 MEIN KAMPF 

The Pan-German movement would probably never have 
made this mistake if it had not possessed too little under- 
standing for the psyche of the great masses. If its leaders 
had known that, in order to achieve any success, one must 
not present, for purely psychological reasons, two enemies 
to the masses, because this would lead to a complete split-up 
of the fighting strength, then for this reason alone the direc- 
tion of the blows of the Pan-German movement would 
have been aimed against one adversary alone. Nothing is 
more dangerous for a political party than to be led by those 
jacks-of-all-trades who want to do everything without ever 
attaining the least thing. 

No matter how much one had to criticize an individual 
denomination, the political party must not for a moment lose 
sight of the fact that, according to all previous experience 
of history, a purely political party, in a similar situation, 
has never succeeded in bringing about a religious refor- 
mation. But one does not study history in order to for- 
get its doctrines when they are to be applied in practice, or 
to believe that things are now different that is, that the 
eternal truth of history is now no longer applicable; but 
from history one learns just the practical application for the 
present. But he who is not able to do this must not imagine 
that he is a political 'leader* ; he is in reality a shallow, and 
also frequently a very vainglorious, simpleton, and no 
amount of good-will excuses his practical inability. 

As a whole, and at all times, the efficiency of the trulv 
national leader consists primarily in preventing the division 
of the attention of a people, and always in concentrating it 
on a single enemy. The more uniformly the fighting will of 
a people is put into action, the greater will be the magnetic 
force of the movement and the more powerful the impetus 
of the blow. It is part of the genius of a great leader to make 
adversaries of different fields appear as always belonging to 
one category only, because to weak and unstable characters 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 153 

the knowledge that there are various enemies will lead only 
too easily to incipient doubts as to their own cause. 

As soon as the wavering masses find themselves con- 
fronting too many enemies, objectivity at once steps in, and 
the question is raised whether actually all the others are 
wrong and their own nation or their own movement alone 
is right. 

Also with this comes the first paralysis of their own 
strength. Therefore, a number of essentially different in- 
ternal enemies must always be regarded as one in such a 
way that in the opinion of the mass of one's own adherents 
the war is being waged against one enemy alone. This 
strengthens the belief in one's own cause and increases one's 
bitterness against the attacker. 

It cost the former Pan-German movement its success be- 
cause it did not comprehend this. 

Its goal was rightly viewed, its will was pure, but the 
way it chose was wrong. It was like a mountain climber 
who fixes the peak that he is to climb well and correctly 
with his eyes and who sets out on his way with the greatest 
determination and energy, but who, paying no attention to 
the way, always fixing his eye on the goal, neither sees nor 
examines the condition of the ascent thus finally failing. 

The situation seemed to be the reverse with its great 
competitor, the Christian Socialist Party. 

The way on which it set out was intelligently and rightly 
chosen, but it lacked the clear knowledge of the goal. &lt; 

In nearly all matters in which the Pan-German move- 
ment failed, the attitude of the Christian Socialist Party 
was correct and carefully planned. 

It had the necessary understanding of the importance of 
the masses and it secured at least part of them by apparent 
stress on its social character from the very first day. By 
aiming essentially at the winning of the small and lower 
middle class and the craftsmen classes, it gained a body of 



154 MEIN KAMPF 

followers that was as faithful as it was enduring, ready for 
sacrifice. It avoided all fights against a religious institu- 
tion, thus securing the support of such a mighty organiza- 
tion as the Church represents. Thus it had only one really 
great chief adversary. It recognized the value of large- 
scale propaganda and it was a virtuoso in influencing the 
spiritual instincts of the great masses of its followers. 

The fact that, nevertheless, it was unable to reach the 
desired goal of Austria's salvation was due to two faults of 
its way and to the obscurity of the goal itself. 

The new movement's anti-Semitism was built up on 
religious imagination instead of racial knowledge. The 
reason for making this mistake was the same as that 
which caused the second error as well. 

If the Christian Socialist Party was to save Austria, 
then in the opinion of its founders it was not to approach 
the question from the racial principle, as otherwise and 
after a short time the general dissolution of the State 
would set in. But the situation in Vienna especially re- 
quired, in the opinion of the party leaders, the greatest 
possible elimination of all disrupting circumstances and in 
its place a stress on all unifying points of view. 

Vienna, at that time, was already so heavily interspersed 
with Czech elements that only the greatest tolerance with 
respect to all racial problems was able to keep them in a 
party that was not anti-German at the start. If one wanted 
to save Austria, one could not renounce them. So, one tried 
to win the small Czech tradesmen, especially numerous in 
Vienna, for the fight against the liberal Manchester move- 
ment, and thereby believed that one had found a slogan 
against Judaism on a religious basis, overshadowing all of 
the racial differences of old Austria. 

It is obvious that a fight on such a basis gave Jewry 
but limited cause for worry. 

If the worse came to the worst, a splash of baptismal 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 155 

water would always save the business and Judaism at the 
same time. 

With so superficial a motivation one never arrived at a 
serious and scientific treatment of the whole problem, and 
therefore only too many people, who could not understand 
this kind of anti-Semitism, were repelled altogether. The 
attractive force of the idea was therefore almost exclusively 
tied to intellectually limited circles, if one wanted to 
arrive at a real knowledge, by means of a purely senti- 
mental feeling. The intelligentsia, as a matter of principle, 
turned aside. Thus the matter was given more and more 
the appearance as though the question involved was only 
the attempt at a new conversion of the Jews or even the 
expression of a "certain competitive envy. But with this 
the fight lost the character of an inner and higher consecra- 



Traditional anti-Semitism had in Germany always been 
based on confessional differences. Any other motivation was 
forbidden by the Church ; and in all the pogroms of the Middle 
Ages, Jews were able to escape the rigor of the persecution by 
accepting baptism. Surprisingly few availed themselves of that 
opportunity; and on the Christian side Saint Bernard had 
pointed out that the worst possible way to attempt conversions 
was to inflict torture and death on the recalcitrant. Therefore 
racial anti-Semitism as an integral part of a program of political 
action remains Hitler's 'Copernican discovery. 1 For now there 
is no escape for the victim no escape even for his Jewish 
grandmother, by reason of whom he is a pariah under the Nazi 
laws. 

It must be conceded that however numerous the sources 
from which Hitler's anti-Semitism derives may be, his proposed 
solution for the 'Jewish problem 1 is original. Probably there 
were few among the older Nazi leaders who accepted it. Goer- 
ing, Strasser, Roehm and the rest envisaged certain Jews of 
whom they wished to rid Germany. Jealousy of Jewish business 
rivals or professional competitors ; popular views of Jewish meth- 



156 MEIN KAMPF 

tion, and thus it appeared to many, and not the worst, as 
immoral and objectionable. The conviction was lacking 
that this was a question of vital importance to the whole of 
mankind and that on its solution the fate of all non-Jewish 
people depended. 

Through these half-measures the value of the Christian 
Socialist Party's anti-Semitic attitude was destroyed. 

It was a sham anti-Semitism that was worse than no 
anti-Semitism at all; because one was thus lulled into 
security; one thought that one had caught the enemy by 
the ears, whereas in reality one was being led about by 
one's own nose. 

The Jew, however, after a short time had so accustomed 



ods of investing capital; age-old, almost atavistic sentiment 
handed down from the days when Jews lived in ghettos; 
soldierly hatred of Jewish pacifists: all these things played 
their part, but there exists overwhelming evidence from the 
years 1933 and 1934 to show that even inside the Party the 
general view was that the anti- Jewish campaign would be kept 
within certain limits. Only Hitler has refused to budge. It 
was he who rode down all opposition and ordered the pogrom 
of November 9. As originally planned, the outbreak was to 
coincide with the opening of the 'Eternal Jew' exposition in 
Berlin, it being assumed that the Government could claim that 
the people' had been so 'impressed' by the material displayed 
there that a 'spontaneous uprising* was unavoidable. The 
murder of Ernst von Rath, a German diplomat in Paris, by 
a young Jewish refugee, provided a far better excuse. More 
than 70,000 Jews were arrested, and those among the victim? 
who had money were ordered to leave the country within a 
specified time. Many thousands more were ejected from their 
homes, made to walk the streets all night, and virtually suffered 
to starve. In Vienna and Innsbruck the spectacle was so fright- 
ful that even hardened Nazis are known to have protested. 
Yet from the point of view of ruthless politics such steps are 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 157 

himself to this kind of anti-Semitism that he would cer- 
tainly have missed its absence more than its presence 
hindered him. 

As one had to make heavy sacrifices to the State of 
nationalities, one had to do so even more in the case of 
the representation of the German nationality itself. 

One could not be 'nationalistic' if one did not want to 
lose the ground under one's feet, even in Vienna. By 
gentle evasion of this question, one hoped to save the 
Habsburg State, while in reality one drove it towards its 
doom by this very attitude. But with this the movement 
lost its enormous source of power which in the long run 
alone is able to replenish a political party with its internal 
force. 

Only through this the Christian Socialist movement 
became a party like all the others. 

In those days I closely observed both movements, the 
one out of the beat of my heart, the other by being carried 
away with admiration for the rare man who even then 
appeared to me to be the bitter symbol of the whole 
German nationality in Austria. 

When the impressive funeral procession of the dead 
mayor left the Rathaus and turned towards the Ring- 
strasse, I, too, was among the many hundreds of thousands 
who watched the tragedy. My feelings told me with 



undeniably clever. For in view of the world-wide economic 
depression, the arrival of Jewish refugees in any number creates 
for the country harboring them a variety of difficult problems. 
First, giving them jobs will be resented by the unemployed; and 
establishing them in business or a profession will add to the 
pressure of competition. The total effect upon the national 
economy may be negligible, but the psychological effect may, 
owing to the fact that discussion of the refugee problem is 
constantly in the foreground, be very considerable. 



158 MEIN KAMPF 

internal emotion that the work of this man too was bound 
to be in vain because of the fate that would lead this State 
to its inevitable doom. Had Doktor Karl Lueger lived in 
Germany, he would have been placed in the ranks of the 
great figures of our nation ; that he had labored in this impos- 
sible State was the misfortune of his work as well as his own. 

When he died, the little flames in the Balkans leaped up 
more greedily from month to month, so that Fate graciously 
spared him the sight of that which he still thought he would 
have been able to prevent. 

I, however, tried to find the causes of the ill success of 
the one movement and the failure of the second, and I 
came to the firm conclusion that, apart from the impossi- 
bility of ever reaching a consolidation of the State in old 
Austria, the mistakes of both parties were the following: 

The Pan-German movement was right on the whole in 
its fundamental opinion about a German rebirth, but it 
was unlucky in the choice of its way. It was nationalistic, 
but unfortunately not social enough to win the masses. 
Its anti-Semitism was based on the correct realization of 
the importance of the race problem and not on the im- 
possibility of religious ideas. Its fight against a certain 
denomination, however, was wrong both in fact and tactics. 

The Christian Socialist movement had an unclear con- 
ception as to the goal of a German renaissance, but it 
showed sense and was lucky in seeking its way as a party. 
It understood the social question's importance, but it was 
wrong in its fight against Judaism and had no idea of the 
power of the national idea. 

tHad the Christian Socialist Party, in addition to its 
clever knowledge of the great masses, also had the right 
conception of the importance of the race problem as the 
Pan-German movement had comprehended it, or if it had 
finally become nationalistic, or if the Pan-German move- 
ment had accepted, in addition to the correct realization of 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 159 

the goal, of the Jewish question and the importance of the 
national idea, also the practical cleverness of the Christian 
Socialist Party, but especially the latter's attitude towards 
socialism, then this would have even then created that 
movement which in my opinion could have intervened suc- 
cessfully in the fate of the German nation. 

That this was not the case was due for the most part to 
the nature of the Austrian State. 

As I did not see this conviction of mine realized in any 
other party, I could not make up my mind in the days that 
followed to join or even to fight with one of the existing 
organizations. Even then I thought that all the political 
movements had failed and were incompetent, that a na- 
tional renaissance of the German people on a larger and 
not really superficial scale was impossible. 

My inner aversion to the Habsburg State grew more 
and more during that time. 

The more I began to occupy myself especially with the 
question of foreign politics, the more my opinion grew and 
the firmer it took root that this State formation was bound 
to become the misfortune of the German nationality. 
Finally, I saw more and more clearly that the fate of the 
German nation would not be decided from this place, but 
in the Reich proper. This was not only true of all general 
political questions, but no less for all manifestations of the 
entire cultural life. 

Here, too, the Austrian State also showed all symptoms 
of debility or at least of its unimportance for the German 
nation in the domain of purely cultural or artistic affairs. 
This was true most of all in the field of architecture. The 
new architecture could not be successful in Austria for the 
reason that since the completion of the Ringstrasse the 
commissions were unimportant, at least as far as Vienna 
was concerned, as compared with the increasing plans of 
Germany. 



160 MEIN KAMPF 

Thus I began more and more to lead a double life: reason 
and reality forced me to go through a school in Austria 
that was as bitter as it was blissful, but the heart dwelt 
somewhere else.-^ 

At that time an oppressive feeling of dissatisfaction 
seized me; the more I recognized the internal hollowness 
of this State and the impossibility of saving it, the more I 
felt with certainty that in all and everything it only repre- 
sented the misfortune of the German people. 

I was convinced that this State was bound to oppress 
and to handicap every really great German, as, on the other 
hand, it promoted everything non-German. 

I detested the conglomerate of races that the realm's 
capital manifested ; all this racial mixture of Czechs, Poles, 
Hungarians, Ruthenians, Serbs, and Croats, etc., and 
among them all, like the eternal fission-fungus [sic] of 
mankind Jews and more Jews. 

To me the big city appeared as the personification of 
incest. 

The German language of my childhood was the dialect 
that was spoken also in Lower Bavaria; I was neither able 
to forget it nor to learn the Viennese jargon. The longer I 
stayed in this city, the more my hatred increased against 
the mixture of foreign nations that began to eat up this 
site of old German culture. 

The idea that this State could still be maintained even 
then seemed ridiculous to me. 

Austria was at that time like an old mosaic; the cement 
which held the single little stones together had become old 
and brittle; as long as the masterpiece is untouched, it can 
still pretend to be existent, but as soon as it is given a 
blow, it breaks into a thousand fragments. The question, 
therefore, was only when the blow would come. 

Since my heart had never beaten for an Austrian mon- 
archy but only for a German Reich, I could only look upon 



POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN VIENNA 161 

the hour of the ruin of this State as the beginning of the 
salvation of the German nation. 

For all these reasons the longing grew stronger to go 
there where since my early youth I had been drawn by 
secret wishes and secret love. 

I hoped to make a name for myself in the future as an 
architect, and thus, be it in a narrow or a wide frame that 
Fate was to bestow upon me, to devote my honest services 
to the nation. 

But finally I wanted to share the happiness of being 
allowed to work on that spot from which the most ardent 
wish of my heart was bound to be fulfilled: the union of 
my own beloved country with the common fatherland, 
the German Reich. 

There are many who even today will not be able to 
understand the intensity of such a longing, but now I 
appeal to those to whom Fate either has denied this hap- 
piness or from whom it has again cruelly taken it; I appeal 
to all those who, severed from the motherland, have to 
fight for the holy treasure of their language, those who, 
because of their faithful adherence to the fatherland, are 
being persecuted and tortured and who now in painful 
emotion long for the hour that will allow them to return 
to the arms of the beloved mother; I appeal to all those 
and I know they will understand me. 

Only he who through his own experience knows what it 
means to be a German without being allowed to belong to 
the dear fatherland will be able to comprehend the deep 
longing that burns at all times in the hearts of the children 
who are separated from the motherland. This longing 
tortures those it has seized and denies them contentedness 
and happiness until the doors of the father's house open 
and the common blood finds peace and quiet again in the 
common Reich. 

But Vienna was and remained for me the hardest, but 



162 MEIN KAMPF 

also the most thorough, school of my life. I had once 
entered this city when still half a boy and I left it as a man 
who had become quiet and serious. In that city I received 
the basis of a view of life in general and a political way 
of looking at things in particular which later on I had only 
to supplement in single instances, but which never again 
deserted me. But it is only today that I am able to ap- 
preciate fully the real value of those years of learning. 

This is the reason why I have dealt with this period more 
fully, as it gave me the first object lessons in those very 
questions which formed part of the fundamental principles 
of the party which, rising from the smallest beginnings, is 
in the course of hardly five years on the way to develop 
into a great mass movement. I do not know what my 
attitude towards Judaism, Social Democracy, or better 
Marxism, social problems, etc., would be today if the 
basic stock of personal opinions had not been formed at 
so early a time under the pressure of fate and of my own 
learning. 

For, though the fatherland's misfortune may stimulate 
thousands upon thousands of people to thinking about the 
internal causes of this collapse, this can never lead to that 
thoroughness and deeper insight which is opened to him 
who only after years of struggle becomes master of his fate. 



CHAPTER IV 
MUNICH 



IN THE spring of 1912 I came to Munich for good, 
t The town itself was as familiar to me as if I had lived 
inside its walls for years. The reason for this was that 
my studies, step by step, directed me towards this metro- 
polis of German art. One has not only not seen Germany 
if one does not know Munich no, above all else, one 
does not know German art if one has not seen Munich. 

At any rate, this period before the War was the happiest 
and most satisfying time of my life. Although my income 
was still very meager, I did not live in order to be able to 
paint, but I painted in order to secure the possibility of 
my existence, or rather in order in this way to permit my- 
self further study. I harbored the conviction that, never- 
theless and finally, I would reach the goal that I had set 
before myself. And this alone made me bear all other little 
troubles of my daily life easily and indifferently. 

But to this was added the inner love that seized me, 
almost from the first hour of my stay, for this town more 
than any other place known to me.&lt;- A German town! 
What a difference as compared with Vienna! It made me 
sick only to think back to this racial Babylon. What is 
more, the dialect here was much closer to me, and especially 
the contact with the Lower Bavarians reminded me of the 



164 MEIN KAMPF 

days of my youth. There must have been thousands of 
things that were, that became, dear to me. But most of all 
I was attracted by the amazing union of inherent strength 
and delicate, artistic atmosphere, this unique line from the 
Hofbrauhaus to the Odeon, from the Oktoberfest to the 
Pinakothek, etc. That today I feel more attached to this 
town than to any other place in the world is probably ex- 
plained by the fact that it is inseparably connected with 
the development of my own life, and will remain so; but 
that I even then attained the happiness of a really inner 
contentedness was attributable only to the charm that this 
beautiful residence of the Wittelsbachs exercises on every 
human being who is blessed not only with calculating rea- 
son but also with appreciative feeling, 
f Apart from my professional work, what attracted me 
most was again the study of current political events, among 
them especially those of foreign politics. I arrived at the 
latter by way of the German coalition policy, which I had 
regarded as both wrong and erroneous ever since my time 
in Austria. However, when I was still in Vienna, the full 
extent of this self-deception of the Reich had not yet be- 
come fully clear to me. In those days I was inclined to 
assume (or perhaps I only tried to tell myself this as an 
excuse) that possibly Berlin already knew how weak and 
unreliable the ally would be in reality, but that for more or 
less mysterious reasons they were withholding this know- 
ledge, in order to support the coalition politics which 
Bismarck himself once had founded, for a sudden break 
was not desirable for fear one might arouse the foreign 
countries which were on the lookout, and alarm the phi- 
listines at home. 

However, contact with the people themselves especially 
very soon made me realize to my great horror that this 
belief was wrong. To my astonishment I ascertained that 
~ven in well-informed circles everywhere one had not the 



MUNICH 165 

slightest idea of the internal structure of the Habsburg 
monarchy. The people especially were ensnared with the 
delusion that one could look upon the ally as a serious 
power that in the hour of distress would certainly be up 
to the mark. The masses still considered the monarchy 
as a ' German ' State and believed that one could count on 
this. The opinion was prevalent that its force might be 
measured by millions, as perhaps in Germany itself, and 
completely forgot that, in the first place, Austria had long 
since ceased to be a German State-entity; that, in the 
second place, the internal conditions of this realm were 
constantly pressing towards dissolution. 

I had known this State formation better than these so- 
called official 'diplomats,' who, nearly blind as always, 
were swaying towards disaster; because the sentiments of 
the people were only and always the outflow of that which 
was poured into public opinion from above. But up above 
one worshiped this 'ally' like the golden calf. Perhaps one 
hoped to replace the sincerity which was lacking by ami- 
ability. In this one always accepted words instead of true 
values. 

It was already in Vienna that I was seized with fury 
when I looked at the difference between the speeches of the 
official statesmen and the contents of the Viennese press 
that was so apparent from time to time. Nevertheless, 
Vienna was still a German city, at least by appearance. 
But how different things were when, leaving Vienna or 
rather German- Austria behind, one came into the Slavic 
provinces of the realm ! One only had to pick up the news- 
papers published in Prague if one wanted to know how the 
sublime jugglery of the Triple Alliance was judged there. 
Nothing was left for this 'statesmanlike* masterpiece but 
cruel taunts and sneers. With absolute peace reigning, and 
the two emperors exchanging kisses of friendship, no secret 
was made of the opinion that this alliance would collapse 



166 MEIN KAMPF 

the very day an attempt was made to lead it out of the 
glamor of the Nibelungen ideal into practical reality. 

How excited one got a few years later when, as the hour 
finally had come in which the alliances were to prove 
themselves, Italy jumped out of the Triple Alliance and let 
its two allies go their own way, and she herself finally be- 
came an enemy in the end! Only those who were not 
stricken with diplomatic blindness could not understand 
that people had even dared to believe for a single minute 
in the possibility of such a miracle, namely, that Italy 
would fight hand in hand with Austria. Even in Austria 
things did not differ by a hair's breadth. &lt;* 

In Austria, the only bearers of the idea of the alliance 
were the Habsburgs and the Germans. The Habsburgs 
out of calculation and compulsion, the Germans out of good 
faith and political stupidity. Out of good faith because 
they thought that through the Triple Alliance they rendered 
a good service to the German Reich, that they helped to 
strengthen and to protect it: out of political stupidity, 
however, because neither was the first opinion right, but, 
on the contrary, they helped thus to shackle the Reich to 
a State carcass that was bound to pull them both into an 
abyss, but above all because through this alliance they 
themselves fell more and more to de-Germanization. For 
by the alliance with the Reich the Habsburgs were, and 
unfortunately could be, sure against an interference from 
this side; they were able to carry out more easily and with 
less risk their internal policy of the slow removal of Ger- 
manism. Not only that with the notorious 'objectivity' 
one no longer had to fear any objection on the part of the 
Reich's government, but by pointing at the alliance one 
was able to silence the German-Austrian voices that might 
be raised, from the German side, against Slavization in too 
infamous a fashion. 

Furthermore, what was the German in Austria to do if 



MUNICH 167 

the Germans in the Reich proper expressed their esteem 
and confidence in the Habsburg regime? Was he to offer 
resistance, so that in the entire German public opinion he 
would be branded a traitor towards his own nationality? 
He who for centuries had made the most unheard-of sacri- 
fices for his nationality! 

But what was the value of this alliance, once the German 
nationality had been rooted out of the Habsburg monarchy? 
Did not the value of the Triple Alliance for Germany 
really depend on the preservation of the German superiority 
in Austria? Or did one really believe that one could still 
live in an alliance with a Slavic Habsburg realm? 

The attitude of official German diplomacy, but also that 
of the entire public opinion, towards the Austrian internal 
problem of nationalities was no longer stupid, no, it was 
absolutely insane. They trusted in an alliance, adjusted 
the safety of a people of seventy million to it and 
watched the partner systematically and relentlessly destroy 
the only foundation of this alliance from year to year. One 
day a ' treaty ' with the Viennese diplomacy would remain, 
but the allied assistance of a realm would be lost. 

This had been the case with Italy from the very begin- 
ning. 

If one had studied history a little more clearly in Ger- 
many, and if one had applied a little racial psychology, one 
would not have believed for even one hour that the Quirinal 
in Rome and the Hofburg in Vienna would ever stand side 
by side in a common battle front. Italy would rather have 
become a volcano before any government could have dared 
to place even one single Italian on the battlefield of the so 
fanatically hated Habsburg State, except as an enemy. 
In Vienna I saw the passionate contempt and the bottom- 
less hatred flare up more than once with which the Italian 
was 'devoted 1 to the Austrian State. The damage that the 
House of Habsburg had done to Italian liberty and in- 



168 MEIN KAMPF 

dependence for centuries was too great to have been for- 
gotten, even if the will to do so had been present. But it 
was not at all present; neither among the people nor with 
the Italian government. For Italy, therefore, there existed 
only two possibilities for living together with Austria; 
either alliance or war. 

By choosing the first, one was able quietly to prepare for 
the second. 

The German policy of alliance was as absurd as it was 
dangerous, especially since Austria's relation to Russia 
was drifting more and more towards a bellicose settle- 
ment. 

It was a classical case in which the lack of any great and 
correct line of thought was lacking. 

Why, then, did one form an alliance at all? Certainly 
only in order to be able to guard the future of the Reich 
better than Germany, standing alone, would have been 
able to do. But the future of the Reich was nothing but 
the question of guarding the German people's possibility 
of existence. 

Therefore, the question could only be formulated thus: 
Along what lines should the life of the German nation 
develop in the near future, and how can one give this de- 
velopment the necessary foundations and the required 
security, within the frame of the general European rela- 
tions of power? 

When considering clearly the suppositions for German 
statesmanship's activity in foreign politics, one necessarily 
came to the following conclusion : 

Germany has an annual increase in population of almost 
900,000 souls. The difficulty of feeding this army of new 
citizens would become greater with every year, and was 
bound some day to end in a catastrophe, provided ways 
and means were not found to avert this impending danger 
of hunger-pauperization in time. 



MUNICH 169 

jThere were four ways in which to avoid such a terrible 

future: 

(i) One could, following the French example, arti- 
ficially restrict the increase of births and thus avoid over- 
population. 

Nature herself, in times of great distress or bad climatic 
conditions, or where the yields of the soil are poor, steps 
in by restricting the population of certain countries or 
races; this, however, is a method that is as wise as it is 
ruthless. She does not restrict the procreative faculty as 
such, but the conservation of the propagated, by subjecting 
them to such severe trials and deprivations that all less 
strong and healthy are forced to return to the bosom of the 
eternally Unknown. What she allows to endure beyond 
the inclemency of existence is tested in a thousand ways, 
hard and well suited to continue to procreate, so that the 

This is one of the most important and frequently misunder- 
stood passages in the book. Oddly enough it has been looked 
upon as substantiating the 'healthy outlook' of the Third 
Reich. It is true, of course, the chronic artificial limitation of 
the population increase leads to highly deplorable social con- 
sequences: the age structure of the nation may change, so that 
the burden of age is abnormally heavy; normal economic 
markets, dependent upon the birth of children and the supply- 
ing of things children need, may dry up; and the inner structure 
of the family may be adversely affected. Hitler's argument is, 
however, derived from the racialistic materialists who, in the 
balmy days before the World War, predicted that the German 
population structure guaranteed success in the coming conflict. 
Their statement that the survival of the fittest assures that the 
begetters of new generations will be stronger and therefore more 
martial is an un verifiable assumption; and the view that nature 
is an infallible selector can easily be tested by the history of 
savage races now under observation. 

More significant, however, is the view that a people can hold 



170 MEIN KAMPF 

thoroughgoing selection may start again from the beginning. 
Thus, by acting brutally against the individual and calling 
him back to herself the moment he is not equal to weather 
the storms of life, she conserves the strength of the race 
and species itself and even spurs it towards the highest 
achievements. 

Her diminishing of the number is a strengthening of the 
individual, thus finally a strengthening of the species. 

But it is different if man decides to carry out the re- 
striction of his numbers. He is not cut out of the same 
wood as Nature, but is 'human. 1 He knows better than 
this cruel Queen of all Wisdom. He does not restrict the 
continued existence of the individual, but rather propaga- 
tion itself. This seems to him, who always sees only him- 
self and never the race, more human and more justified 
than the reverse. Unfortunately, the consequences are also 
now the reverse: 

While Nature, by giving free rein to propagation but 

its place in the world only if it produces sufficient excess popula- 
tion to assure victory in wars of conquest. There is hardly 
another statement which has so profoundly disturbed com- 
fortable visions of the terrestial future. For many years it has 
underlain prophecies concerning the eventual war between 
'races'; and it has now for some time been a factor in the re- 
armament of Europe. All the dictatorships Russia, Italy, 
and Germany refer to their reservoirs of man-power as 
a warning to the weak and the small. In no other case, how- 
ever, has the campaign to increase the population because 
soldiers are needed been so dramatic as in Get many. The most 
eloquent summary of results to date is Hitler's Reichstag 
address of February, 1.938. He contended that there had been 
a notable increase in the number of children born. But when 
the figures advanced are set against the population curve, it 
becomes exceedingly doubtful whether the birth-rate per 
thousand married women is higher than it was previously. 



MUNICH 171 

subjecting the conservation of life to the severest trials, 
and by choosing, from a surplus number of individuals, 
those who are most worthy of living, thus preserving them 
alone and now making them the bearers of the preservation 
of the species, man restricts propagation, but on the other 
hand he makes efforts to keep alive, at any price, every 
human being once it is born. This correction of the divine 
will seems to him to be as wise as it is human, and he is glad 
that he has outwitted Nature once more in such a matter, 
and that he even has given proof of her shortcomings. 
But, of course, the Lord's dear little monkey does not at 
all like to see or to hear that in reality, although the number 
has certainly been restricted, the value of the individual 
has been diminished. 

Because, once propagation as such has been limited and 
the number of births reduced, the natural struggle for 
existence, that allows only the very strongest and healthiest 
to survive, is replaced by the natural urge to 'save' at any 
price also the weakest and even sickest, thus planting the 
germ for a succession that is bound to become more and 
more miserable the longer this derision of Nature and of 
her will is continued. 

But the result will be that one day existence in this 
world will be denied such a people; because man may 
certainly defy the eternal law of the will to continue, but 
nevertheless revenge will come, sooner or later. A stronger 
generation will drive out the weaklings, because in its ulti- 
mate form the urge to live will again and again break the 
ridiculous fetters of a so-called * humanity' of the indi- 
vidual, so that its place will be taken by the 'humanity' of 
Nature which destroys weakness in order to give its place 
to strength. 

He who, therefore, would secure the German people's 
existence by way of a self-restriction of its increase robs it 
of its future. 



172 . MEIN KAMPF 

(2) A second way would be the one that is being sug- 
gested and eulogized more and more frequently today; 
domestic colonization. This is a suggestion which is well 
intended by as many as it is generally badly understood 
by most, so that it causes the greatest imaginable damage. 

The productivity of the soil can undoubtedly be in- 
creased to a certain limit. But of course only to a certain 
limit, and not continuously without end. Therefore, one 
could be able to balance the increase of the German people 
by the increased yield of our soil for some time, without 
having to think immediately of hunger. But this is con- 
fronted by the fact that, generally, the demands upon life 
increase faster than the number of the population. Men's 
demands with regard to food and clothes increase from 
year to year, and even now they are no longer in proportion 

When Hitler wrote these passages, they meant more than 
they do now. Prior to the War, Germany had depended to a 
considerable extent upon the exchange of manufactured goods 
for foodstuffs. Afterward, instructed by the blockade and 
handicapped by a lack of foreign exchange, she began to 
encourage more intensive farming. The results were a steady 
rise in crop production, aided by rigidly controlled markets. 
As a matter of fact, the government was able to take grain 
from Russia and resell it at a profit through Amsterdam. The 
argument now arose as to whether the attempt to supply 
sufficient grain ought not to be abandoned in favor of more 
specialized farming the production of poultry, eggs, milk. 
This could be realized if the eastern section of the country were 
broken up into small farms. Advocates of such resettlement 
program, modest beginnings in carrying out which had been 
made, insisted that it would also stop the overcrowding of cities 
and place a cordon of dependable men along the Polish border. 
In an official statement issued during March, 1930, the Nazis 
also expressed their approval of the idea, and some of their 
fading spokesmen promised to carry it out efficiently if they 



MUNICH 173 

ro the needs of our forefathers of about a hundred years 
ago. It is, therefore, erroneous to believe that each increase 
in production creates the presupposition for an increase of 
the population: no; this is true only to a certain degree, for 
at least part of the surplus yield of the soil is used to satisfy 
the increased demands of men. But even with greatest 
economy on the one hand, and with the utmost industry 
on the other, here, also, though postponed for some time, a 
limit will become apparent one day, prescribed by the soil 
itself. Famine will return from time to time in periods of 
poor harvests, etc. This will occur more and more often 
with the increasing number of the population, and finally 
will fail to appear only at such rare times when years of 
plenty will have filled the granaries. But finally the time 
comes when it will no longer be possible to satisfy the needs, 
and famine will have become the eternal companion of 
such a people. Now Nature has to help again and to choose 
among those she has selected to live, or man will again help 
himself; that means, he turns to artificial restriction with 
all the grave consequences for race and species alluded 
to. 

Now, one may object that this future will threaten 
entire mankind in this way or the other, and that thus the 
individual peoples will not be able to escape this fate. 

At first sight this is certainly correct. Yet here one has 
to consider the following: 

Certainly the time will come, in consequence of the 
impossibility of adapting the fertility of the soil to the 
number of the increasing population, when the whole of 

came to power. But when the Republic attempted in 1931 to 
carry out an inner colonization program in dead earnest, it 
was dismissed by President von Hindenburg, now himself the 
owner of an East Prussian estate. Since that time, no real ef- 
fort has been made to tackle the problem. 



174 MEIN KAMPF 

mankind will be forced to stop the increase of the human 
race and either let Nature decide again or to create the 
necessary balance by self-help, if possible, but then in a 
better way than that of today. But this would hit all na- 
tions, whereas today only those races are stricken by such 
distress which no longer have sufficient energy and strength 
to secure for themselves the soil they need in this world. 
For even today things are such that there is still soil on this 
earth in enormous extent that is unused and only awaits 
its cultivator. But it is also correct that Nature did not 
reserve this soil in itself for a certain nation or race as re- 
served territory for the future, but it is land and soil for 
that people which has the energy to take it and the in- 
dustry to cultivate it. 

Nature does not know political frontiers. She first puts 
the living beings on this globe and watches the free game 
of energies. He who is strongest in courage and industry 
receives, as her favorite child, the right to be the master 
of existence. 

If a people limits itself to domestic colonization, at a 
time when other races cling to greater and greater surfaces 
of the earth's soil, it will be forced to exercise self-restriction 
even while other nations will continue to increase. For 
some day this case will occur, and it will arrive the earlier 
the smaller the living space is that a people has at its dis- 
posal. As, unfortunately only too frequently, the best 
nations, or, better still, the really unique cultured races, 
the pillars of all human progress, in their pacifistic blindness 
decide to renounce the acquisition of new soil in order to 
content themselves with 'domestic* colonization, while 
inferior nations know full well how to secure enormous 
areas on this earth for themselves, this would lead to the 
following result: 

The culturally superior, but less ruthless, races would 
have to limit, in consequence of their limited soil, their 



MUNICH 175 

increase even at a time when the culturally inferior, but 
more brutal and more natural, people, in consequence of 
their greater living areas, would be able to increase them- 
selves without limit. In other words: the world will, there- 
fore, some day come into the hands of a mankind that is 
inferior in culture but superior in energy and activity. 

For then there will be only two possibilities in the no 
matter how distant future: either the world will be ruled 
according to the ideas of our modern democracy, and then 
the stress of every decision falls on the races which are 
stronger in numbers, or the world will be dominated ac- 
cording to the law of the natural order of energy, and then 
the people of brute strength will be victorious, and again, 
therefore, not the nations of self-restriction. 

But one may well believe that this world will still be 
subject to the fiercest fights for the existence of mankind. 
In the end, only the urge for self-preservation will eternally 
succeed. Under its pressure so-called 'humanity,' as the 
expression of a mixture of stupidity, cowardice, and an 
imaginary superior intelligence, will melt like snow under 
the March sun. Mankind has grown strong in eternal 
struggles and it will only perish through eternal peace. 

For us Germans, however, the watchword 'domestic 
colonization' is unfortunate for the reason that with us it 



The 'Programme der N.S.D.A.P.' drawn up by Feder, stipu- 
lated that the government would insist upon a 'land reform 
consonant with our national needs, passage of a law to provide 
for the confiscation, without payment, of ground needed for 
communal purposes, abolition of interest on land, and preven- 
tion of every kind of speculation in land.' This passage created 
a good deal of bad blood, and on April 13, 1928, Hitler pub- 
lished an official correction stating that since the Party believed 
in private property, this clause could only mean that land ac- 
quired in unlawful or immoral ways by Jewish speculators. 



176 MEIN KAMPF 

at once enhances, from the pacifistic outlook, the opinion 
that we have found a means which allows us to 'work out* 
an existence in twilight sleep. Once this doctrine will have 
been taken seriously with us, it would mean the end of 
every effort to secure in this world the place that is ours. 
Once the average German gained the conviction that he 
might secure his life and his future in such a way, every 
attempt at an active and fruitful representation of the 
German necessities of life would be eliminated. By such 
an attitude on the part of the nation all really useful foreign 
politics, and, with it, the future of the German people on 
the whole, could be looked upon as dead and buried. 

In realizing these consequences it is not by accident that 
primarily the Jew always tries, and knows how, to implant 
such deadly and dangerous thoughts in our people. He 
knows his customers only too well not to know that they 
gratefully fall victims to any Spanish treasure swindler 
who tries to make them believe that a means has now been 
found to play a trick on Nature, to make the hard and in- 
exorable struggle for life superfluous, so that in its place, be 
it by work or sometimes also by merely doing nothing, 
just 'as the case may be/ one can rise to be master of the 
planets. 

It cannot be emphasized sharply enough that all German 
domestic colonization has to serve, primarily, only to abolish 
social abuses, but above all to withdraw the soil from general 
speculation, and that it can never suffice to secure the future 
of the nation without new land and soil. 

If this is not done, then, after a short time, we will not 

Expropriation of property owned by Jews or political enemies 
has been fairly continuous, but reached new heights during 
1938. In Austria Jewish cultural centers and Jewish homes 
alike were taken away, without any legal formality other than 
registration. 



MUNICH 177 

only have arrived at the limit of our soil, but also at the end 
of our strength. 

But finally, the following must also be established : 

The restriction to a certain small surface of soil, as con- 
ditioned by domestic colonization, and the same final result 
which is achieved by limitation of propagation, lead to an 
extremely unfavorable military political situation of the 
nation involved. 

The size of a people's living area includes an essential 
factor for the determination of its outward security. The 
greater the amount of room a people has at its disposal, 
the greater is also its natural protection; because military 
victories over nations crowded in small territories have 
always been reached more quickly and more easily, espe- 
cially more effectively and more completely, than in the 
cases of States which are territorially greater in size. The 
size of the State territory, therefore, gives a certain pro- 
tection against frivolous attacks, as success may be gained 
only after long and severe fighting and, therefore, the risk 
of an impertinent surprise attack, except for quite unusual 
reasons, will appear too great. In the greatness of the State 
territory, therefore, lies a reason for the easier preservation 
of a nation's liberty and independence, whereas, in the 
reverse case, the smallness of such a formation simply in- 
vites seizure. 

The two first-mentioned possibilities for the creation 
of a balance between the rising numbers of population and 
the unchanging territory were indeed rejected by the so- 
called national circles of the Reich. The reasons for this 
attitude were of course different from those mentioned 
above: towards birth control one primarily showed a nega- 
tive attitude because of a certain moral feeling; domestic 
colonization was indignantly rejected, as in it one scented 
an attack against the great landowners, and with it the 
beginning of a general fight against private property aa 



178 MEIN KAMPF 

such. The form in which the latter doctrine of salvation 
especially was recommended justified this assumption. 

In general, however, the defense against the great masses 
was not very skillful and did not meet the nucleus of the 
problem. 

Thus, there remained but two ways to assure work and 
bread to the increasing number of people. 

(3) One could either acquire new soil in order annually to 
send off the superfluous millions, and thus conserve the na- 
tion further on on the basis of a self-sustainment, or one 
could set about, 

(4) through industry and trade, to produce for foreign 
consumption and to live on the proceeds. &lt;? 

That means: either territorial policy, or colonial and 
trade policy. 

Both ways were examined, investigated, recommended, 
and fought, till finally the second one was carried out. 

The healthier of the two, of course, was the first. 

The acquisition of new land and soil for the settling of the 
superfluous population has no end of advantages, especially 
when turning away from the present towards the future. 

The very possibility of preserving a healthy peasant class 
as the basis of the entire nation can never be sufficiently 
valued. To a great extent many of our present sufferings 
are only the consequences of the unhealthy proportion be- 
tween town and country population. A solid stock of small 
and medium peasants was at all times the best protection 
against social ills as we have them today. This is also the 
only solution that allows a nation to find its daily bread in 
the inner circle of its domestic economy. Industry and 
trade step back from their unwholesome leading positions 
into the general frame of a national economy of balanced 
demand and supply. Both are then no longer the basis of a 
nation's subsistence, but a means to it. Inasmuch as now 
they have a balance between their supply and demand in all 




MUNICH 179 

fields, they make the entire support of the nation inde- 
pendent of foreign countries, thus helping to secure the lib- 
erty of the State and the independence of the nation, espe- 
cially in times of distress. 

Obviously, such a territorial policy, howe^ 
its fulfillment in the Cameroons, for 
exclusively only in Europe. One must i 
accept the point of view that it certainly/ 
intention to give fifty times as much 
earth to one nation as compared with ai! 
political frontiers must not keep us awaj 
of eternal right. If this earth really has : 
to live in, then one should give us the spa? 
for living. 

One will certainly not like to do this. Then, however, the 

Here Hitler, following Rosenberg and some other theorists, 
professes disinterestedness in what has since become a familiar 
Nazi demand. The two greatest apostles of colonial acquisi- 
tion in Africa and elsewhere have been Dr. Heinrich Schnee 
and Dr. Hjalmar Schacht. The first, who was a prominent Ger- 
man colonial officer before the War, has led the fight to revise 
the Treaty of Versailles to permit restoration to Germany of 
her former colonies. But the influence of Dr. Schacht has been 
far greater. In the memoirs of President Friedrich Ebert, one 
reads that Schacht, then a little known official whose affiliation 
with the Democratic Party had brought him good Jewish con- 
nections, had proposed a scheme whereby Germany was to 
purchase with American money the Portuguese colony of 
Angola. After 1933 Schacht intensified his drive, with the 
result that the point of view taken in Mein Kampf appeared to 
have been revised. It is probable, however, that recent agita- 
tion has been directed in the main towards getting possession of 
Southwest Africa and possibly indirect control of the whole of 
South Africa, where a great deal of money has been spent on 
propaganda and where the party is relatively strong. For a 



180 MEIN KAMPF 

right of self-preservation comes into effect; and what has 
been denied to kindness will have to be taken with the fist. 
Had our forefathers once made their decisions dependent on 
the same pacifistic nonsense as that of our present time, we 
should own altogether only one third of our present terri- 
tory; but in that case a German people would not have any 
cause for uneasiness in Europe. No. To their natural de- 
termination to fight for their own existence we owe the two 
Ostmarks of the Reich and with it that internal strength of 
the greatness of our State and national territory that alone 
enabled us to exist to this day. 

This solution would have been the right one for another 
reason also: 

Many European States today are comparable to pyramids 
standing on their points. Their European territory is ridicu- 
lously small as compared with their burden of colonies, for- 
eign trade, etc. One may say, the point is in Europe, the 
base in the whole world ; in comparison with the American 
Union, which still has its bases in its own continent and 
touches the remaining part of the world only with its points. 
From this results, however, the unheard-of internal 
strength of this State and the weakness of most of the 
European colonial powers. 

Even England is no proof to the contrary, for because of 
the British Empire, one only too easily forgets the Anglo- 
Saxon world as such. England cannot be compared with 
any other State in Europe, if only because of her linguistic 
and cultural communion with the American Union. 



time it seemed as if the British were willing to make a deal, but 
more recently their ardor has cooled perceptibly. At the close 
of 1938 'colonial schools' in Germany were training young 
people for colonial administration. Some also feel that the Ger- 
man government would also not be averse to dividing the 
French colonies in Africa with the Italians. 



MUNICH 181 

For Germany, therefore, the only possibility of carrying 
out a sound territorial policy was to be found in the acquisi- 
tion of new soil in Europe proper. Colonies cannot serve 
this purpose, since they do not appear suitable for settle- 
ment with Europeans on a large scale. But in the nine- 
teenth century it was no longer possible to gain such colo- 
nial territories in a peaceful way. Such a colonial policy 
could only have been carried out by means of a hard struggle 
which would have been fought out more suitably, not for 
territories outside Europe, but rather for land in the home 
continent itself. 

Such a decision, however, requires undivided devotion. 
It doesn't do to set out half-heartedly or even hesitatingly 
on a task, the execution of which seems possible only with 
the exertion of the utmost energy. Then also the entire 

The theory that Germany can expand at the expense of 
Russia has very complex origins and possibly an equally com- 
plicated future. A large section of the Nazi Party has always 
been skeptical of this idea; and after 1919 the dominant point 
of view among German nationalists was that Russia must be 
made an ally, with whose help the war of revenge might be 
waged against the Western Powers. Even Count Ernst zu 
Reventlow, a Nazi but with a nuance all his own, once conferred 
with Karl Radek on the possibility of such an alliance. From 
time to time since 1933 army officers in the two countries have 
discussed the thing anew. It is usually thought that the ' crisis ' 
which Stalin solved by ordering the execution of many high 
officials in the Soviet government and army was the product of 
one such conversation. It is therefore not at all improbable 
that this policy may triumph ultimately despite all that has 
been said to the contrary. 

Hitler's attitude as stated here seems in the main derivative 
from two sources: first, the speculations of Alfred Rosenberg, 
and the views entertained by Generals Ludendorff and Max 
Hoffman on the Treaty of Brest-Li tovsk, signed with Bolshevist 



181 MEIN KAMPF 

political authority of the Reich would have had to serve this 
exclusive purpose; never should any step have been taken 
from considerations other than the realization of this task 
and its conditions. One had to make it clear to oneself that 
this goal could be reached only through fighting, and quietly 
to face the passage at arms. 

All the alliances should have been examined exclusively 
from this point of view and evaluated according to their 
suitability. If one wanted land and soil in Europe, then by 
and large this could only have been done at Russia's ex- 
pense, and then the new Reich would again have to start 
marching along the road of the knights of the orders 
[Ordensritter: it is possible that the author meant to use 
the word Ritterorden, i.e., crusaders] of former times to give, 

Russia in 1918. Rosenberg was born in Reval and educated in 
Moscow. Following the triumph of Lenin, he came to Germany 
and settled in Munich, where he met Hitler and became the 
'philosopher* of the Nazi Party. His obscure racial origins 
he is certainly partly of Tartar blood and may even have Jewish 
ancestors his cloudy intellectual background, and his advo- 
cacy of a Germanic religion are familiar topics of conversation 
in all circles where Germany is discussed. He once drew from 
Dr. Brtlning, speaking before the Reichstag, the following fa- 
mous rebuke: 'I have been accused of a dearth of affection for 
my country by a gentleman who, while I was fighting for the 
fatherland, had not yet made up his mind if he had a father- 
land. 1 

It is quite probable that Rosenberg was initiated in the out- 
look of the 'Black Hundred,' as a rightist secret organization 
which kept the Czarist police on their toes before the War was 
called. This ultra-nationalistic and violently anti-Semitic 
group may, indeed, have transmitted to Hitler, through Rosen- 
berg, the deeper bases of his doctrine. Careful study of the pos- 
sible sources of this man's views is badly needed. At any rate, 
Rosenberg: argued that just as a Bolshevist Russia had once 



MUNICH 183 

with the help of the German sword, the soil to the plow 
and the daily bread to the nation. 

For such a policy, however, there was only one single ally 
in Europe: England. 

With England alone, one's back being covered, could one 
begin the new Germanic invasion. Our right to do this 
would not have been less than that of our forefathers. None 
of our pacifists refuses to eat the bread of the East, although 
the first plow was once called ' sword ' ! 

To gain England's favor, no sacrifice should have been 
too great. Then one would have had to renounce colonies 
and sea power, but to spare British industry our compe- 
tition. 

Only an unconditionally clear attitude could lead to such 
a goal: renouncing world trade and colonies; renouncing a 

almost seized Germany, so in turn a Nazi Germany might 
seize Russia. 

The coveted territory is sometimes held to be Ac Ukraine 
which Ludendorff and Hoffman set up as an independent State 
in 1918. This is a 'wheat granary' and much else besides. 
Assuming that the Ukrainians are dissatisfied with Soviet rule, 
the plan would be to foment a revolution there, set up an inde- 
pendent State, and exercise a protectorate over it. But in 1918 
Poland objected bitterly to the cession of the Province of Cholm 
to the Ukraine, and without Cholm a united Ukraine is incon- 
ceivable. The effect of a new step in this direction during 1938 
immediately caused the Polish government to foster better 
relations with Russia. Moreover, it is not dear whether, sup- 
posing that all obstacles were surmounted and an independent 
Ukraine were set up, Germany could exploit the region as the 
theorists assume. As for Russia, it cannot give up without a 
struggle a region upon which it depends for bread and inside 
which some of its major industrial plants are situated. 

Accordingly the arguments in favor of assuming that the 
German future lies where Hitler said it did in 1925 must be set 



184 MEIN KAMPF 

German war fleet. Concentration of the State's entire 
means of power in the land army. 

The result would certainly have been a momentary re- 
striction, but a great and powerful future. 

There was a time when England would have permitted 
herself to engage in discussions such as these. She under- 
stood quite well that Germany, in consequence of her in- 
crease in population, had to look for some way out, and 
would find this either with England's co-operation in 
Europe, or without England in the world. 

It was attributable, probably, to this idea that at the turn 
of the century London herself tried to approach Germany. 
In those days there appeared for the first time that which 
we have had an opportunity of observing in a really terrify- 
ing manner in these times. One was unpleasantly affected 



off against arguments that stress the difficulties in the way. 
Equally important as a factor is the growing similarity between 
the Russian and the German regimes, now often pointed out. 
During 1920, a Social Democratic commission went from Ger- 
many to study the actual achievements of the Soviet system. 
The report then issued by one of its members, Wilhelm Ditt- 
mann, corresponds strikingly with any of the number of reports 
on the Nazi system now being written by observers of the same 
school. 

Rosenberg and others have been convinced that British sup- 
port could be gained for any serious attempt to undermine the 
Russian system and therewith stamp out the Third Interna- 
tional as a fomenter of world revolution. Two reasons for this 
conviction are usually advanced. The first is the support re- 
ceived by White Russian revolutionists from English sources, 
which support has occasionally been deflected to Hitler. The 
second is the feud long since in progress between certain British 
financiers and the Soviet system. Sir Henry Deterding, the oil 
magnate, was themost manifest of the partisans of Germany ; and 



MUNICH 185 

by the idea that now one would have to 'pull the chestnuts 
out of the fire ' for England ; as if an alliance were at all con- 
ceivable on a basis other than that of mutual business 
transactions! Such a business could very well have been 
done with England. British diplomacy was still clever 
enough to know that, without reciprocal service, no service 
could be expected. 

Imagine that a clever German foreign policy assumed 
Japan's r61e in 1904, and one can hardly realize what conse- 
quences this would have had for Germany. 

It would never have come to a 'World War.' 

The blood of the year 1904 would have saved the tenfold 
amount of the years 1914 till 1918. 

But what position would Germany have in the world 
today? 

To be sure, the alliance with Austria was an absurdity in 
that case. 

Because this mummy of a State did not unite with Ger- 
many in order to fight a war, but rather for the conserva- 
tion of eternal peace, which then could have been cleverly 
used for the slow but certain extinction of the German na- 
tion in the monarchy. 

This alliance, however, was an impossibility, for the rea- 
son that one could not expect official representation of 
national German interests on the part of a State, so long as 
it had not even the power and the determination to make 



the reader can surmise the existence of other connections if he 
studies Ourselves and Germany, by Lord Londonderry, Doubt- 
less a more important factor has been the British endeavor to 
deflect a war if there must be war from western Europe. 
Yet, however willing London might be to let Germany become 
entangled in the East, the chances have grown less and less im- 
pressive that any support for such a maneuver would be forth- 
coming. 



116 MEIN KAMPF 

an end to the process of de-Germanization outside its imme- 
diate frontier. If Germany did not possess enough national 
consciousness and also ruthlessness to tear the disposition 
of the fate of the ten million tribesmen from the hands of 
this impossible Habsburg State, then one could hardly 
expect that it would ever offer its help to such farseeing and 
daring plans. The attitude of the old Reich towards the 
Austrian question was the touchstone for its attitude in the 
entire nation's fateful struggle. 

IH any event, one should not have looked on idly while 
the German nation was being pushed back from year to 
year, as Austria's value as an ally was determined exclu- 
sively by the preservation of the German element. 

However, one did not go this way at all. 

One feared nothing more than a fight, so that finally in 
the least favorable hour one was nevertheless forced into it. 

One tried to escape Fate and was overtaken by it. One 
dreamed of the preservation of world peace and landed in 
the World War. 

For this was the most important reason why one never 
considered this third way of the formation of a German 
future. One knew that the acquisition of new soil was to be 



These passages imply not only a critique of Germany's pre- 
War policy, but also indeed, primarily a negation of the 
views then prevalent in the Alldeutscher Verband (Pan-German 
League). Its leaders, Heinrich Class in particular, had looked 
upon a war with the western powers as inevitable, had there- 
fore cherished the alliance with Austria, and had counseled 
rapprochement with Russia. After the War generals who had 
sponsored the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk professed to believe that 
the opposite point of view had been theirs all along; and to their 
analysis Hitler added his contempt for the Habsburg State. 
It is still far too early to predict that the plan sponsored in 
Mein Kampf will be rigidly adhered to. 



MUNICH 187 

attained only in the East, and one saw the necessary fight, 
and yet one wanted peace at any price; for the watchword 
of German foreign politics had long ceased to be, preserva- 
tion of the German nation by all means, but rather, preser- 
vation of the world peace by all available means. It is well 
known how this succeeded. 

I will come back to this point in particular. 

Thus there remained still the fourth possibility: industry 
and world trade, sea power and colonies. 

Such a development, in the first instance, could be 
reached more easily and more quickly. The settlement of 
land and soil is a slow process that often takes centuries; in 
this its inner strength may be sought that it does not mean 
a sudden flaring-up, but a slow but thorough and continued 
growing, as compared with the industrial development 
which can be blown up in the course of a few years, which 
then, however, resembles a soap bubble more than genuine 
strength. Of course, a fleet can be built more quickly than 
the establishment of farms and settling them with farmers, 
a tough struggle; but it can also be destroyed more quickly. 

If Germany, nevertheless, chose this way, then one had 
at least to recognize clearly that this development also 
would some day end in fighting. Only children could be- 
lieve that, through friendly and civilized behavior and con- 
tinued emphasis on a friendly disposition, could they 
gather their ' bananas' in a 'peaceful competition of na- 
tions/ as one so nicely and unctuously chattered, without 
ever being forced to take up arms. 

No; if we went this way, then England would some day 
become our enemy. It was more than absurd to get indig- 
nant at this, but it was in keeping with our own harmless- 
ness that England took the liberty of some day meeting our 
peaceful activity with the brutality of the violent egoist. 

We, I regret to say, would never have done this. 

If European territorial policy could be carried out against 



188 MEIN KAMPF 

Russia only with England as an ally, then, on the other 
hand, colonial and world trade policy was conceivable only 
against England with the help of Russia. But then one 
would here also have had to accept the consequences ruth- 
lessly and above all one would have to drop Austria 
immediately. 

Looked at from any direction, this alliance was genuine 
madness as early as the turn of the century. 

However, one did not at all think of forming an alliance 
with Russia against England, nor with England against 
Russia, for in both cases the end would have been war, and 
to prevent this one decided in favor of a trade and indus- 
trial policy. With the 'peaceful economic' conquest of the 
world one had a formula which was supposed to break the 
neck of the former policy of force once and for all. But 
sometimes one was not quite sure of this, especially when 
from time to time quite unintelligible threats came over 
from England; therefore, one decided to build a fleet, but 
again not for attack or for the destruction of England, but 
for the 'defense' of the already mentioned 'world peace' 
and of the 'peaceful conquest' of the world. Therefore, it 
was kept a little more modestly in all and everything, not 
only in number, but also in tonnage of the single ships as 
well as in armament, so that finally one could manifest 
'peaceful* intentions after all. 

The talk of the 'peaceful economic conquest' of the 
world was certainly the greatest folly that was ever made 
the leading principle of a State policy. This nonsense was 
still further increased by the fact that one did not shy off 
from calling England as the crown witness for the possibility 
of such an achievement. What sins the historical doctrine 
and conception of our professors helped on thereby can 
hardly be remedied, and it is only a striking proof of the 
manner in which people today 'learn' history without 
understanding or even grasping it. Precisely in England 



MUNICH 189 

one should have realized the striking refutation of this 
theory: no nation has more carefully prepared its economic 
conquest with the sword with greater brutality and de- 
fended it later on more ruthlessly than the British. Is it not 
a characteristic of British statesmanship to draw economic 
conquests from political force and at once to mold every 
economic strengthening into political power? But what a 
mistake to believe that England was perhaps personally too 
* cowardly ' to shed her own blood in defense of her economic 
policy! The fact that the English people had no 'national 
army' in no way proved the contrary; for it is not the mili- 
tary form of the defensive power of the moment that counts, 
but rather the will and the determination to risk what is at 
hand. England always possessed the armament that she 
needed. She always fought with the weapons that were 
required for success. She fought with mercenaries as long 
as mercenaries sufficed; but she also dipped into the most 
valuable blood of the entire nation whenever such a sacrifice 
alone was able to bring about victory; but the determina- 
tion to fight and the tenacity and unflinching conduct 
always remained the same. 

In Germany, however, by way of school, press, and comic 
papers, one gradually created an image of the character of 
the Englishman and even more of his realm that led to one 
of the most catastrophic self-deceptions; because everything 
was gradually infected by this folly, and its consequence 
was an underestimation that took its most bitter revenge. 
This deception went so deep and was so great that one was 

This is doubtless intended for the consumption of the ' English 
cousins.' In 1914 Germany was not misled by a few cartoons 
into thinking that the English were gulls; it jumped, by reason 
of the British government's non-committal statements, to the 
belief that it would find England neutral . . . long enough, at 
any rate, to permit Moltke to defeat France. 



190 MEIN KAMPF 

convinced that one saw in the Englishman a merchant as 
crafty as he was personally incredibly cowardly. That an 
empire of the size of the British had not been brought to- 
gether by sneaking and swindling never occurred to our 
sublime teachers of professorial wisdom. The few who 
uttered warnings were not listened to or were passed by in 
silence. I well remember the astonished faces of my com- 
rades, when in Flanders we faced the Tommies personally. 
After the first few days of battle the conviction dawned on 
everyone that these Scots did not quite correspond to those 
one had thought fit to describe to us in comic papers and 
newspaper dispatches. 

In those days I formed my first reflections about the use- 
fulness of the form of propaganda. 

But this falsification had one good side for those who 
spread it; by this example, although it was wrong, one was 
able to demonstrate the fact that the economic conquest of 
the world was correct. We, too, could succeed where the 
Englishman had succeeded, where by our greater honesty 
the lack of that specific English 'perfidy' could be looked 
upon as a special asset. For in this one hoped to win the 
sympathy of the smaller nations especially as well as the 
confidence of the greater ones more easily. 

For the reason alone that we believed all this quite seri- 
ously, we did not see that our honesty was an abomination 
in the eyes of the others, while the rest of the world consid- 
ered this behavior as the expression of an especially sly 
mendacity, till at last, to the greatest astonishment of all, 
the revolution gave a deeper insight into the unlimited 
stupidity of our 'honest' conviction. 

But from the nonsense of this 'peaceful economic con- 
quest 9 of the world the absurdity of the Triple Alliance was 
at once clear and understandable. With what other State, 
then, could we form an alliance? Together with Austria one 
could really not set out on a ' martial ' conquest, let us say, 



MUNICH 191 

even in Europe. In this very fact lay the inner weakness of 
this alliance from the first day. A Bismarck was allowed 
to take this emergency measure, but not any bungling suc- 
cessor, and least of all at a time when the essential supposi- 
tions for Bismarck's alliance had long ceased to exist; for 
Bismarck still believed he had a German State in Austria. 
With the gradual introduction of general suffrage, however, 
this country had come down to the level of a parliamentar- 
ily ruled, un-German medley. 

Then, too, the alliance with Austria was disastrous from 
the point of view of a racial policy. One tolerated the rising 
of a new Slavic great power at the frontier of the Reich 
which sooner or later would take an attitude towards Ger- 
many quite different from that of, for example, Russia. 
But the alliance itself, therefore, was bound to become 
weaker from year to year and more hollow internally in the 
same proportion in which the only supporters of this idea 
lost their influence in the monarchy and were crowded out 
of the most authoritative posts. 

At the turn of the century the alliance with Austria had 
entered into exactly the same state as Austria's alliance with 
Italy. 

IJere, too, there existed only two possibilities: either one 
was in alliance with the Habsburg monarchy, or one had to 
protest against the suppression of the German nationality. 
Once one starts a thing like that, the end is usually open 
battle. 

The value of the Triple Alliance was psychologically mod- 
est, as the stability of an alliance increases in the measure in 
which the individual contracting parties hope to attain cer- 
tain seizable, expansive goals through it. On the other 
hand, an alliance will be the weaker the more it restricts 
itself to the preservation of an existing condition as such. 
Here also, as everywhere, the strength lies not in defense but 
in attack. 



192 MEIN KAMPF 

This was already recognized in those days by various 
sides, unfortunately not by those who were the so-called 
'chosen/ Especially Ludendorff, then Colonel in the Great 
Army Staff, pointed to these weaknesses in a memorandum 
of the year 1912. But on the part of the 'statesmen,' of 
course, no value or importance was attributed to the mat- 
ter; for, on the whole, clear common sense becomes appar- 
ent only through common mortals, but is not necessary 
where 'diplomats' are concerned. 

It was indeed fortunate for Germany that the war finally 
broke out in 1914 by way of Austria, so that the Habsburgs 
were forced to join; had it been the other way round, Ger- 
many would have stood alone. Never would the Habsburg 
State have been able or willing to join in a fight that had 
been caused by Germany. What later one judged so 
severely about Italy would have happened even earlier with 
Austria; one would have remained 'neutral/ so as to save 
the State from a revolution at the very beginning. The 
Austrian Slavic nationalities would have smashed the mon- 
archy in 1914 rather than have helped Germany. 

But only very few were able to realize how great the 
dangers and difficulties were which the alliance with the 
Danubian monarchy involved. 

First of all, Austria had too many enemies who hoped to 
inherit from the decaying State, so that a certain hatred was 
bound to break out against Germany in the course of time, 
as one considered Germany the cause preventing the decline 
of the monarchy, hoped for and longed for from all sides. 
One arrived at the conviction that Vienna was only to be 
reached by way of Berlin. 

But with this Germany lost, secondly, the best and most 
hopeful possibilities for an alliance. It was replaced by an 
ever-increasing tension with Russia and even Italy. In 
Rome especially the general mood was as pro-German as 
it was anti-Austrian in the heart of even the most humble 
Italian, sometimes flaring up vividly. 



MUNICH 193 

t Now, since one had taken up a commercial and industrial 
policy, there was no longer even the slightest cause for a war 
against Russia. Only the enemies of both nations could still 
have a lively interest in that. Indeed, it was primarily only 
Jews and socialists who stirred and fanned public opinion 
towards a war between these two States with all possible 
means. 

Finally, and thirdly, this alliance must needs harbor an 
unlimited danger for Germany for the reason that a great 
power that was hostile to the Reich of Bismarck could easily 
succeed at any time in mobilizing quite a number of States 
against Germany, as one was able to promise enrichment 
for each of them at the expense of Austria's ally. 

One had to stir up the entire East of Europe against the 
Danubian monarchy, especially Russia and Italy. Never 
would the world coalition have come together that began to 
form itself with King Edward's initiating activity, had not 
Austria, as Germany's ally, represented a too tempting 
legacy. Only thus did it become possible to bring States, 
which otherwise had such heterogeneous wishes and aims, 
into one single front. With a general advance against Ger- 
many, every one of them could hope to receive enrichment 
at the expense of Austria. The danger was increased exceed- 
ingly by the fact that now Turkey also seemed to be a silent 
partner of this unfortunate alliance. 

But international Jewish world finance needed this bait 
in order to carry out the longed-for plan of a destruction of 

4 International Jewry* as the instigator of war was one of 
divers concoctions made to soothe the patriotic ache. It is 
served up constantly in anti-Semitic brochures and periodicals 
of the post- War period. A favorite name was that of Mr. J. P. 
Morgan, who was endowed with Hebrew blood. The theory 
is a kind of extreme Rightist counterpart to the Marxist view 
that the drift to war is inherent in the capitalist system. 



194 MEIN KAMPF 

Germany, which did not yet submit herself to the general 
super-State control of finance and economics. Only with 
this was one able to forge a coalition, made strong and cour- 
ageous by the armies numbering millions now on the march, 
ready to attack the horned Siegfried at last. 

The alliance with the Habsburg monarchy, which had 
filled me with discontent while I was still in Austria, now 
began to become the cause of long internal trials which in 
the interval merely strengthened the opinion I had previ- 
ously made.-* 

Even in those days, in the small circles which I fre- 
quented, I did not conceal my opinion that this unfortunate 
treaty with a State destined to destruction would also lead 
to a catastrophic collapse of Germany, unless one knew how 
to break away in time, I never wavered even for a moment 
in my firm conviction, even when the storm of the World 
War seemed to have excluded all reasonable thinking and 
the ecstasy of enthusiasm had even seized those for whom 
there should have existed the coldest consideration of real- 
ity. When I was at the front, whenever these problems were 
discussed, I upheld my opinion that the alliance should be 
broken, the sooner the better for the German nation, and 
that the price of the abandonment of the Austrian mon- 
archy would be no sacrifice at all, if by this Germany could 
gain a lessening in the number of her enemies; because it 
was not for the preservation of a dissolute dynasty that mil- 
lions had put on the steel helmet, but for the salvation of 
the German nation. 

A few times before the War it seemed as though at least in 
one camp there had appeared a slight doubt about the cor- 
rectness of the policy of alliance. German conservative cir- 
cles from time to time began to warn against too great a 
confidence, but this was thrown to the wind, as was done 
with all that was sensible. One was convinced that one was 
on the right way to a 'conquest' of the world, the success of 



MUNICH 195 

which would be enormous, the sacrifices for which would be 
negligible. 

Once more the only choice of the notorious 'un-chosen* 
was to watch in silence why and how the 'chosen' marched 
straight towards destruction, drawing the innocent people 
behind them like the piper of Hamelin. 



The deeper causes of the possibility of presenting, and 
even of making understandable, the absurdity of an 
'economic conquest' as a practical political way, the 
preservation of 'world peace' as a political goal, to an 
entire people was found in the general indisposition of 
our entire political thinking as a whole. 

With the victorious march of German technical skill and 
industry, with the rising successes of German trade, the 
knowledge was gradually lost that all this was only possible 
on the basis of a strong State. On the contrary, in many 
circles one went so far as to have the opinion that the State 
itself owed its existence only to these developments, that 
the State itself represented only an economic institution, 
that it was to be ruled according to economic rules, and that 
therefore it depended in its makeup on economics, a condi- 
tion which was then looked upon and praised as by far the 
soundest and most natural. 

But the State has nothing whatsoever to do with a 
definite conception of economics or development of eco- 
nomics. 

The State is not an assembly of commercial parties 
in a certain prescribed space for the fulfillment of economic 
tasks, but the organization of a community of physically 
and mentally equal human beings for the better possibility 
of the furtherance of their species as well as for the fulfill- 
ment of the goal of their existence assigned to them by 
Providence. This, and nothing else, is the purpose and the 



196 MEIN KAMPF 

meaning of a State. Economy is, therefore, only one of the 
many auxiliary means necessary for reaching this goal. But 
it is never the cause or the purpose of a State, provided the 
latter is not based from the start on a foundation that is 
wrong because it is unnatural. Only thus can it be explained 
that the State, as such, need not even have a territorial 
limitation as its assumption. This will be necessary only 
with those nations which for their own part want to secure 
the maintenance of their fellow men; that means that they 
are ready to fight the struggle for existence by their own 
work. Nations which are able to sneak their way into the 
rest of mankind like drones, in order to make them work for 
them under all kinds of pretexts, are able to form States 
without any certain limited living area of their own. This 
may be said primarily of that people under the parasitism 
of which, especially today, the entire honest mankind has 
to suffer: the Jews. 

The Jewish State was never spatially limited in itself; it 
was universally unlimited in respect to space, but it was 
restricted to the collectivity of a race. This is the reason 
why this people always forms a State within other States. 
It was one of the most ingenious tricks that was ever in- 
vented to let this State sail under the flag of 'religion/ 
thus securing for it the tolerance that the Aryan is always 
ready to grant to a religious denomination. Actually the 
Mosaic religion is nothing but a doctrine of the preservation 
of the Jewish race. Therefore, it comprises also nearly all 

The Old Testament conceived of as a volume written to ex- 
pound the nationalistic philosophy of the Jewish race is now a 
favorite item on the Nazi cultural menu. Rosenberg writes in 
Mythus des 2on Jahrhunderts (Myth of the 2Oth Century): 
4 As a book of religion, the Old Testament must be done away 
with once and for all. That will end the unsuccessful attempt 
of 1500 years to turn us mentally into Jews, with the result, 



MUNICH 197 

sociological, political, and economic fields of knowledge 
which could ever come into question. 
fThe instinct of preserving the species is the first cause 
of the formation of human communities. But the State 
is a folk organism and not an economic organization. A 
difference that is as great as it remains incomprehensible 
to the so-called 'statesmen/ especially of today. They 
believe, therefore, that they can build up the State by 
economy, whereas in reality it is always the result of the 
activity of those qualities which lie in line with the will to 
preserve the species and the race. But these are always 
heroic virtues and never commercial egoism, since the pre- 
servation of the existence of a species presupposes the 
individual's willingness to sacrifice itself. This is the very 



among other things, that we are at present materially depend- 
ent upon Jews.' For him as for his assistants in Nazi educa- 
tional effort (J. Von Leers, for instance), the Old Testament is 
nothing but a collection of stories about prostitutes and cattle- 
traders. By comparison the Germanic legends and the German 
mystics teach heroism, soldierly conduct, and purity. The 
endeavors of the Christian Churches to defend the Sacred 
Books against the official propagandists are reflected in the 
answers to the Mythits written by Catholic and Protestant 
scholars. Of especial importance are the Advent sermons 
preached by Cardinal Faulhaber, of Munich, on the sub- 
ject. These are reprinted in Judaism, Christianity and Ger- 
many. 

A recent pamphleteer puts this more succinctly: 'Our people 
in arms is no longer an army. It has become the youthful fight- 
ing nation. The army, the police, the armed organizations of 
our youth, can now be used for greater national purposes. 
Producers of foodstuffs, members of the teaching profession, 
and all other groups in the community are now prepared to 
work for the good of the nation as a whole when emergency 



198 MEIN KAMPF 

meaning of the poet's words ' Und setzet ihr nicht das Leben 
tin, nie wird Euch das Leben gewonnen sein* [Unless you 
stake your life, never will life be won], that the sacrifice of 
the personal existence is necessary in order to guarantee the 
preservation of the species. Thus the most essential sup- 
position for the formation and preservation of a State is 
the presence of a certain feeling of homogeneity on the basis 
of the same entity and the same species, as well as the 
readiness to risk one's life for this with all means, something 
that will lead nations on their own soil to the creation of 
heroic virtues, but parasites to mendacious hypocrisy and 
malicious cruelty; that is, these qualities must be present 
as the supposition for their existence which varies in the 
various State forms. But the formation of a State will 
always be brought about by at least originally risking these 
qualities, whereby in the struggle of self-preservation those 
people will be defeated that means be subject to enslave- 
ment and thus, sooner or later, die out who, in the mutual 
battle, call the smallest share of heroic virtues their own, 
or which are not adequate to the mendacious ruse of the 
hostile parasite. But in this case also this is due not so 
much to a lack of cleverness as to a lack of determination 



and danger arise.' Cf. Der ideak Stoat (The Ideal State), by 
Hanz Hartmann. Another writes: 'A people which seeks above 
all else to safeguard its national existence will endeavor to 
strengthen and increase its power. A weak state is always a 
temptation to neighboring states to expand their possessions at 
its expense. As a consequence there can be no peace in Europe 
until Germany is the equal in power and prestige of the other 
states. Frederick the Great's maxim that peace is best guar- 
anteed in the shadow of bayonets is still true today. A people's 
will to live and its military strength are one and the same.' Cf . 
Deutschland, Deutschland, nichts als Deutschland (Germany, 
Germany, Nothing but Germany), by Walter Wallowitz. 



MUNICH 199 

and courage that tries to conceal itself under the cloak 
of a humanitarian attitude. 

However, how little the qualities forming and preserving 
a State are connected with economy is shown most clearly 
by the fact that the inner strength of a State coincides 
only in the very rarest cases with the so-called economic 
zenith, but that this usually announces in so many examples 
the already approaching decay of the State. If one had to 
ascribe the formation of human communities first of all 
to economic forces or impulses, then the highest economic 
development should at the same time indicate the greatest 
strength of the State, and not vice versa. 

The belief in the force of economy to form or preserve 
States seems especially unintelligible when it is predominant 
in a country which in each and every thing shows clearly 
and impressively the historical reverse. Particularly in 
Prussia it is shown with wonderful acuteness that not 
material qualities but idealistic virtues alone make possible 
the formation of a State. Only under their protection is 
economy able to flourish, but with the collapse of the purely 
State-forming abilities, economy also breaks down again; 
an event that we are able to observe just now in so terribly 
a saddening manner. Man's material interests are able to 
thrive best as long as they remain in the shadow of heroic 
virtues; but as soon as they try to enter the first circle of 
existence, they destroy the conditions of their own ex- 
istence. -*? 

Whenever in Germany an upswing of political power took 
place, economy also began to rise; but thereafter, whenever 
economy was made the sole content of our people's life, thus 
suffocating the ideal virtues, the State collapsed again, 
and after a certain time it pulled economy down with it into 
the grave. 

But if one asks oneself the question what the force* 
forming or otherwise preserving a State are in reality, it 



200 MEIN KAMPF 

can be summed up with one single characterization: the 
individual's ability and willingness to sacrifice himself for 
the community. But that these virtues have really nothing 
whatsoever to do with economics is shown by the simple 
realization that man never sacrifices himself for them; that 
means : one does not die for business, but for ideals. Nothing 
proved the Englishman's psychological superiority in 
knowledge of the people's psyche better than the motivation 
with which he cloaked his fight. While we fought for bread, 
England fought for 'liberty,' and not even for her own, no, 
for that of the smaller nations. We laughed at this impu- 
dence or we were annoyed by it, thus only proving how 
thoughtless and stupid Germany's so-called statesmanship 
had become even before the War. Not the slightest idea 
was left concerning the nature of the force that leads men 
to death out of free will and resolution. 

As long as in 1914 the German people was still able to 
fight for ideals, it resisted; but as soon as it was allowed 
to fight only for its daily bread, it preferred to give up 
the game. 

But our wise 'statesmen* were astonished at this change 
of attitude. It never became clear to them, from the mo- 
ment a man fights for an economic interest he tries to avoid 
death, as this would rob him forever of the enjoyment of the 
reward of his fighting. The anxiety for the rescue of her 
own child turns even the most weak mother into a heroine, 
and only the fight for the preservation of the species and 
the hearth or the State that protected them, drove men at 
all times towards the spears of the enemy. 

The following sentence may be established as an eternally 
valid truth: 

Never was a State founded by peaceful economy, but 
always only by the instincts of preserving the species, no 
matter whether they are found in the field of heroic virtues 
or sly cunning; the one results then in Aryan States of 



MUNICH 801 

work and culture, the other in Jewish colonies of parasites. 
But as soon as in a people or in a State, economy as such 
begins to choke these instincts, economy itself becomes the 
enticing cause for subjection and suppression. 

The belief of pre-War times, that by a trade or colonial 
policy the world could be opened or even conquered for the 
German people in a peaceful way, was a classical symptom 
of the loss of the virtues that really form and preserve a 
State and of all insight, will power, and active determina- 
tion resulting from them; the result of this was, by law of 
nature, the World War and its consequences. 

For one who did not make deeper researches, however, 
this attitude of the German nation for it was really 
almost general could only represent an insoluble riddle; 
was not just Germany a really wonderful example of a realm 
that had grown from fundamentals that were purely politi- 
cal from the point of view of power? Prussia, the germ 
cell of the Reich, was created by resplendent heroism and 
not by financial operations or commercial affairs, and the 
Reich itself was in turn only the most glorious reward of 
political leadership and military death-defying courage. 
How could just the German people's political instincts be- 
come so morbid? For the question involved here was not 
that of a single symptom, but instances of decay which 
flared up now in legion like delusive lights brushing up and 
down the national body, or which like poisonous ulcers ate 
into the nation now here, now there. It seemed as though 
a continuous flow of poison was driven into the farthest 
blood vessels of this one-time heroic body by a mysterious 
power, so as to lead to ever more severe paralysis of sound 
reason and of the simple instinct of self-preservation. 

By letting these questions pass through my mind in- 
numerable times, conditioned by my attitude towards the 
German policy of alliance and economy in the years 1912 
to 1914, there remained more and more for the solution of 



202 MEIN KAMPF 

the riddle that power that I had become acquainted with 
previously in Vienna, determined from quite different 
points of view: the Marxian doctrine and view of life and 
its ultimate organizatory effects. 

For the second time in my life I dug into this doctrine 
of destruction this time, of course, no longer led by the 
influences and effects of my daily surroundings, but directed 
by the observation of general events of political life. As I 
had recently begun to plunge into the theoretical literature 
of this new world and had tried to make clear to myself its 
possible effects, I compared these with the daily symptoms 
and events of its effect in political, cultural, and economic 
life. 

But now for the first time I also turned my attention to 
the attempts at mastering this world plague. 

I studied Bismarck's exemption laws as to their intention, 
struggle, and success. But gradually I gained a truly 
granite foundation for my own conviction, so that from 
that time on I was never forced to make a change in my 
internal attitude towards the matter. Also, the relation- 
ship between Marxism and Judaism was subjected to a 
further thorough examination. 

If formerly in Vienna, Germany had above all else ap- 
peared to me as an unshakable colossus, now, however, 
anxious doubts sometimes began to rise in my mind. With 
myself and in the small circles of my acquaintances, I was 
wrathful at German foreign politics, and also at what 
seemed to me an unbelievably frivolous manner with which 
one faced the most important problem that confronted 
Germany in those days: Marxism. I really could not 
understand how one was able to stagger blindly towards a 
danger the ultimate effects of which, corresponding to its 
own intentions, were one day bound to be monstrous. In 
those days I warned those around me, as I am doing today 
on a larger scale, against the fervent prayer of all cowardly 



MUNICH 803 

wretches: 'Nothing can happen to us!' Was not Germany 
subject to exactly the same laws as all other human 
communities? 

In the years 1913 and 1914, in various circles, some of 
which today stand faithfully by the movement, I expressed 
for the first time the conviction that the question of the 
future of the German nation is the question of the destruc- 
tion of Marxism. 

In the fatal German policy of alliances I saw only one 
of the after-effects that were caused by the destructive 
working of this doctrine; for the terrible thing was just the 
fact that this poison almost invisibly destroyed all the 
foundations of a sound conception of State and economics, 
frequently preventing those who were attacked by it even 
from guessing how far their activity and intentions already 
were the results of this otherwise most decidedly objection- 
able view of life. 

The internal decline of the German nation had begun 
long before, but, as so frequently in life, without the people 
seeing clearly who the destroyer of their existence was. 
Sometimes one doctored about with the disease, but one 
confused the forms of the symptoms with the cause. As 
one did not know, or did not want to know, this, the fight 
against Marxism had only the value of prattling quackery 



CHAPTER V 
THE WORLD WAR 



DURING the years of my unruly youth nothing had 
grieved me more than having been born at a time 
when temples of glory were only erected to mer- 
chants or State officials. The waves of historical events 
seemed to have calmed down to such an extent that the 
future appeared really to belong to the 'peaceful compe- 
tition of nations/ that means a quiet mutual cheating, ex- 
cluding forceful measures. The individual States began 
more and more to resemble enterprises which cut the 
ground from under each other, stole each other's customers 
and orders, and tried to cheat each'other by every means, 
setting this in a scene which was as noisy as it was harmless. 
This development, however, not only seemed to endure, but 
it was intended to transform the world (with general ap- 
proval) into one big department store, in the lobbies of 
which the busts of the most cunning profiteers and the most 
harmless administration officials were to be stored for eter- 
nity. The business men were to be supplied by the English, 
the administration officials by the Germans; the Jews, how- 
ever, would have to sacrifice themselves to being propri- 
etors, because, as they themselves admitted, they never 
earn anything but only 'pay/ and, besides, they speak 
most of the languages. 



THE WORLD WAR 205 

Why could one not have been born a hundred years 
earlier? For instance, at the time of the Wars of Liberation 
when a man really was worth something, even without 
'business'?! 

1 1 was often filled with annoying thoughts because, as it 
appeared, of the belated entrance of my journey into this 
world, and I looked upon this period of 'quiet and order' 
that awaited me as an unmerited mean trick of Fate. Even 
as a boy I was not a 'pacifist,' and all attempts at an educa- 
tion in this direction came to naught. 

The Boer War appeared to me like summer lightning. 

Every day I was on the lookout for the newspapers; I 
devoured dispatches and reports, and I was happy that 
1 was being allowed to witness this heroic struggle, if only 
from afar. 

The Russo-Japanese War already found me much more 
mature and also more attentive. At that time I had taken 
sides more for national reasons, and when settling my 
opinions I had at once taken the side of the Japanese. In 
the defeat of the Russians I saw also a defeat of the Austrian 
Slavic nationalities. 

Many years since had passed, and what then appeared 
to me a foul and lingering illness when I was a boy, I now 
considered as the calm before the storm. Already during 
my Viennese time there hovered over the Balkans that 
fallow sultriness which usually announces a hurricane, but 
at times a brighter light flashed up only to return immedi- 
ately into the uncanny darkness. But then came the Bal- 
kan War, and with it the first gust of wind swept over a 
Europe which had grown nervous. The time that followed, 
however, weighed heavily upon the people like a nightmare, 
brooding like the feverish heat of the tropics, so that in 
consequence of the continued anxiety, the feeling of the 
impending catastrophe finally turned into longing; might 
Heaven at last let Destiny, no longer to be restrained, take 



206 MEIN KAMPF 

its full course! The first powerful lightning flashed upon 
the earth; the storm broke out, and the thunder of the 
heavens mingled with the roaring of the batteries of the 
World War. &lt; 

When the news of the murder of Archduke Franz Ferdi- 
nand reached Munich (I was in the house and heard only 
vague details of the event), I was at first worried that the 
bullets might perhaps have come from the pistols of Ger- 
man students, who, because of their indignation at the 
continued Slavization activities of the Heir Presumptive, 
wished to free the German nation from this internal 
enemy. One could imagine well what the consequences 
would have been in that case: a new wave of persecutions 
which would now have been 'justified' and 'motivated' in 
the face of the whole world. When, however, soon after I 
heard the names of the suspected murderers, and read that 
their nationality had been established as Serbian, a slight 
horror began to creep over me because of this revenge of 
inscrutable Destiny. 

The greatest friend of the Slavs had been felled by the 
bullets of Slav fanatics. 

Those who had had an opportunity to observe continu- 
ously the relations between Austria and Serbia during the 
last few years could not doubt for even a moment that the 
stone had been set rolling on a course that could no longer 
be checked. 

One does the Viennese government an injustice when 
today one showers it with reproaches regarding the form and 
the contents of the ultimatum it issued. No other power on 
earth would have been able to act differently in a similar 
situation and under the same circumstances. On the south- 
east bordfer of her realm Austria had an inexorable and 
mortal enemy who challenged the monarchy at shorter 
and shorter intervals, and who would not have given in til! 
finally the favorable moment for the destruction of the 



THE WORLD WAR 207 

realm had actually come. One had reason to fear that this 
event would happen not later than with the death of the 
old emperor; but then perhaps the monarchy would no 
longer be in a position to render any serious resistance. 
The entire State, during these last years, was represented 
to such an extent by the person of Franz Joseph that from 
the beginning, the death of this aged personification of the 
realm was looked upon by the great masses as the death of 
the realm itself. It was indeed the most cunning artfulness 
of the Slav policy to create the impression as though the 
Austrian State owed its existence to the really wonderful 
and unique skill of this monarch; a flattery which was the 
more favorably received in the Hofburg as it corresponded 
least of all to the actual merits of the emperor. One was 
not able to discover the sting tkat was hidden in this praise. 
One did not see, or perhaps one did not want to see, that the 
more the monarchy was based on the superior ruling skill 
of, as one used to say, this 'wisest of all monarchs' of all 
times, the more desperate was the situation bound to be- 
come when some day here too Destiny would knock at the 
door to collect its tribute. 

Would then the old Austria be conceivable without the 
old emperor? 

Would not the tragedy, which once had met Maria 
Theresa, immediately repeat itself? 

No, one really does an injustice to Viennese government 
circles if they are reproached with the fact that now they 
were driving towards a war which perhaps would have been 
avoidable after all. It was no longer avoidable, but it could 
have been postponed for only one or two more years at the 
most. But this was the very curse of the German as well as 
of the Austrian diplomacy that it had always tried to post- 
pone the unavoidable settlement till at last it was forced to 
strike at an unfavorable hour. One can be certain that a 
renewed attempt at preserving the peace would have 



SOB MEIN KAMPF 

brought on the war in spite of this at an even less favorable 
time. 

No, those who did not want this war would have had to 
summon the courage to assume the consequences. These, 
however, could have only consisted in the sacrificing of 
Austria. But even then the war would have come, though 
perhaps not in the form of a fight against all, but in the 
form of a dismemberment of the Habsburg monarchy. 
But there one would have had to decide whether one 
wanted to join or whether one wanted to watch, with 
empty hands, Fate take its course. 

It is just those who today curse most and pronounce the 
wisest opinions about the beginning of the war, who helped 
most catastrophically to steer towards war. 

For decades Social Democracy had carried on the most 

The question of responsibility for the War is still a moot one, 
but Hitler is not discussing it here in the sense in which it is 
usually propounded. He is taking his stand on the platform of 
Ludendorff, Graefe, Class and other Pan-Germans for whom 
the issue was never whether a war was coming or whether it 
could be avoided, but whether Germany would choose the 
right moment to strike and whether it would possess the 
requisite military strength. This group was bitterly antagon- 
istic to Bethmann-Hollweg for having desired to keep the peace 
and for having refused to endorse certain items proposed for 
inclusion in the military budget of 1913. That the 'people* 
were with them they have never doubted, and still do not 
doubt. The whole blame falls, they maintain, on Bethmann- 
Hollweg. Accordingly one readies this interesting conclusion: 
it seems impossible to hold the German government of 1914 
solely responsible for the declaration of war, but the head of the 
German government of 1938 has gone on record in this book as 
wishing that his predecessor had assumed that responsibility. 

Hitler has promised to guarantee that the next time there 
be no such blunders. On November 28, 1934, Mr. Winston 



THE WORLD WAR 209 

villainous war propaganda against Russia, but the Center 
Party, for religious reasons, had made the Austrian State 
most of all the center and turning-point of German poli- 
tics. Now one had to bear the consequences of this mad- 
ness. What now came had to come, and it was unavoidable 
under any circumstances. The German government's 
fault therein was that, in order to preserve peace, it again 
and again missed the favorable hour for striking; that it 
got entangled in the alliance for the preservation of world 
peace, thus finally falling victim to a world coalition which 
opposed the very preservation of peace with the determi- 
nation of a world war. 

If at that time the Viennese government had given the 
ultimatum another, milder wording, this would not have 
changed anything in the situation except perhaps the fact 
that the government itself would have been swept away by 
the indignation of the people. Because, in the eyes of the 
great masses, the tone of the ultimatum was much too con- 



Churchill addressed the House of Commons on the subject of 
Germany's program of rearmament. Referring to the air 
force, he said: 'On the same basis, that is to say, both sides con- 
tinuing with their existing program as at present arranged, by 
the end of 1936 that is, one year farther on, and two years 
from now the German military air force will be nearly 
50 per cent stronger, and in 1937 nearly double. ... So much 
for the comparison of what may be called the first line air forces 
of the two countries/ Replying on behalf of the government, 
Stanley Baldwin said: 'I say there is no ground at this moment 
for undue alarm and much less for panic. There is no imme- 
diate danger confronting us or anyone else in Europe at this 
moment. But we must look ahead, and there is ground for grave 
anxiety, and that is why we have been watching the situation 
for months past, are watching it now, and shall continue to 
watch it.' 



S10 MEIN KAMPF 

siderate and in no way too brutal or even too far-reaching. 
Those who today try to deny this are either forgetful empty- 
heads or quite deliberately cheats and liars. 

The fight of the year 1914 was certainly not forced upon 
the masses, good God! but desired by the entire people 
itself. 

One wanted at last to make an end to the general uncer- 
tainty. Only thus is it understandable that for this most 
serious of all struggles more than two million German men 
and boys joined the flag voluntarily, ready to protect it with 
their last drop of blood. 



To me personally those hours appeared like the redemp- 
tion from the annoying moods of my youth. Therefore I 
am not ashamed today to say that, overwhelmed by impas- 
sionate enthusiasm, I had fallen on my knees and thanked 
Heaven out of my overflowing heart that it had granted 
me the good fortune of being allowed to live in these times. 

A struggle for freedom had broken out, greater than the 
world had ever seen before; because, once Fate had begun 
its course, the conviction began to dawn on the great masses 
that this time the question involved was not Serbia's or 
Austria's fate, but the existence or non-existence of the 
German nation. 

For the last time in many years, the German nation had 
become clairvoyant about its own future. Thus, at the very 
beginning of the enormous struggle the intoxication of the 
exuberant enthusiasm was mixed with the necessary serious 
undertone; for this realization alone made the national ris- 
ing become something greater than a mere bonfire. But 
this was only too necessary; even then one had no idea 
of the possible length and duration of the struggle now 
beginning. One dreamt of being home again in winter to 
continue work in renewed peace. 



THE WORLD WAR 211 

What man desires, he hopes and believes. The over- 
whelming majority of the nation had long been tired of the 
eternally uncertain state of things; thus one could only too 
readily understand that one no longer believed in a peaceful 
adjustment of the Austro-Serbian conflict, but hoped for 
the final settlement. I, too, belonged to these millions. 

Hardly had the news of the assassination spread in 
Munich, when two ideas immediately entered my head: 
first, that war would now at last be unavoidable, and 
further, that the Habsburg State would be forced to keep 
the alliance; for what I had always feared most was the 
possibility that one day Germany herself, perhaps just in 
consequence of this alliance, would be entangled in a con- 
flict without Austria being the direct cause for this, but 
that in such a case the Austrian State, for domestic political 
reasons, would not summon the energy to decide to stand 
by its ally. The Slav majority would certainly immediately 
have begun to sabotage such an intention by the State 
itself, and would certainly have preferred to smash the 
entire State into bits rather than to give the required help 
to the ally. This danger, however, was now averted. The 
old State had to fight whether it wanted to or not. 

My own attitude towards the conflict was very clear and 
simple to me : in my eyes it was not Austria fighting for some 
Serbian satisfaction, but Germany fighting for her exist- 
ence, the German nation for its being or non-being, for 
freedom and future. Bismarck's work now had to fight; 
what the fathers once had gained by fighting with their 
heroic blood in the battles from Weissenburg to Sedan and 
Paris, now young Germany had to earn again. If this fight 
would be carried through victoriously, then our nation 
would also have returned to the circle of ,'the nations which arc 
great in external power, and only then could the German 
Reich prove a powerful shield of peace without being forced 
to reduce its children's daily bread for the sake of this peace. 



212 MEIN KAMPF 

As a boy and a young man I had often formed the wish 
that at least once I might be allowed to prove by deeds 
that my national enthusiasm was not an empty delusion. 
Often I considered it a sin to shout 'hurrah' without per- 
haps having the inner right to do so; for who may use this 
cry without having proved himself there where all play is 
at an end and where the inexorable hand of the Goddess of 
Fate begins to weigh nations and men according to the 
truth and the durability of their convictions? Thus my 
heart, like that of a million others, was overflowing with 
proud happiness that at last I was able to free myself from 
this paralyzing feeling. So many times had I sung 'Deutsch- 
land uber dies' and shouted with full voice 'Heil,' that I 
considered it almost a belated favor that I was now allowed 
to appear as a witness before the tribunal of the Eternal 
Judge in order to proclaim the truth and the sincerity of my 
convictions. From the first hour I was certain that in the 
event of war (which appeared unavoidable to me), I would 
abandon my books in one way or the other. But I knew 
just the same that my place would be there where my inner 
voice directed me to go. 

I had left Austria primarily for political reasons: but 
what was more natural that now that the fight had begun 
that I had to act according to this conviction? I did not 
want to fight for the Habsburg State, but I was ready to die 
^t any time for my people and the Reich it constituted. 

On August 3 I submitted a direct petition to His Majesty 
King Ludwig III with the request that I be permitted to 
serve in a Bavarian regiment. The cabinet office was cer- 
tainly more than busy in those days; my joy was the greater 
when on the following day I received the reply to my re- 
quest. My joy and my gratitude knew no end when I had 
opened the letter with trembling hands and read that 
my request had been granted and that I was summoned 
to report to a Bavarian regiment. A few days later I wore 



THE WORLD WAR 213 

the uniform which I waa not to take off again for six 
years. 

Thus, as probably for every German, there began for me 
the most unforgettable and the greatest period of my mortal 
life. In the face of the events of this mighty struggle the 
entire past fell back into shallow oblivion. It is now ten 
years since this mighty event happened, and with proud 
sadness I think back to those weeks of the beginning of the 
heroic fight of our people which Fate had graciously per- 
mitted me to share. 

f As if it were yesterday, one picture after the other passes 
before my eyes: I see myself donning the uniform in the 
circle of my dear comrades, turning out for the first time, 
drilling, etc., till finally the day came when we marched. 

There was only one thing that worried me at that time, 
like so many others also: that was whether we would not 
arrive at the front too late. This alone disturbed my peace 
again and again. Thus in every jubilation over a new 
heroic deed there seemed to be a hidden drop of bitterness 
as with every new victory the danger of our being delayed 
seemed to increase. 

Finally, the day came when we left Munich in order to 
start fulfilling our duty. Now for the first time I saw the 
Rhine as we were riding towards the west along its quiet 
waters, the German river of all rivers, in order to protect it 
against the greed of the old enemy. When through the deli- 
cate veil of the dawn's mist the mild rays of the early sun 
set the Niederwalddenkmal shimmering before our eyes, 
the 'Watch on the Rhine' roared up to the morning sky 
from the interminably long transport train and I had a 
feeling as though my chest would burst. 

Then at last came a damp, cold night in Flanders through 
which we marched silently, and when the day began to 
emerge from the fog, suddenly an iron salute came whizzing 
over our heads towards us and with a sharp report the 



214 MEIN KAMPF 

small bullets struck between our rows, whipping up the 
wet earth; but before the small cloud had dispersed, out of 
two hundred throats the first hurrah roared a welcome to 
the first messenger of death. But then it began to crackle 
and roar, to sing and howl, and with feverish eyes each one 
of us was drawn forward faster and faster over turnip fields 
and hedges till suddenly the fight began, the fight of man 
against man. But from the distance the sounds of a song 
met our ears, coming nearer and nearer, passing from com- 
pany to company, and then, while Death busily plunged his 
hand into our rows, the song reached also us, and now we 
passed it on : ' De utschland, DeutscUand uber alles, Uber dttes 
inderWeltl' 

After four days we came back. Even our step had be- 
come different. Boys of seventeen now resembled men. 

The volunteers of the regiment had perhaps not yet 
learned to fight properly, but they knew how to die like old 
soldiers. 

This was the beginning. &lt;* 

Thus it continued year after year; but the romance of 

Hitler here set the example for what would later prove to be 
a deluge of war tales. Concerning his military record, the fol- 
lowing facts are known ; that he served as a messenger between 
regimental headquarters and the front; that he was a good 
soldier who refused to the very end to join in criticism of the 
way things were being run; that his temperament made his 
commanding officer doubt the wisdom of promoting him to 
any sort of non-commissioned rank above that of corporal, and 
that he occupies a modest but honorable place in the history of 
the Regiment List, to which he belonged. The particular ex- 
ploit for which he received the Iron Cross is shrouded in secrecy, 
but most biographers agree that there was no reason why it 
should not have been awarded. Hitler, by Rudolf Olden, at- 
tempts a critical evaluation of the legend that had grown up 
round Hitler's war experience. 



THE WORLD WAR 215 

the battles had turned into horror. The enthusiasm gradu- 
ally cooled down and the exuberant joy was suffocated by 
the fear of death. The time came when everyone had to 
fight between the instinct of self-preservation and the ad- 
monition of duty. I, too, was not spared this inner struggle. 
Whenever death was on the hunt, an undefinable something 
tried to revolt, tried to present itself to the weak body in 
the form of reason and was really nothing but cowardice 
which in this disguise tried to ensnare the individual. A 
strong pulling and warning set in and only the last remain- 
ing spark of conscience made the decision. But the more 
this voice tried to warn me to take heed, the louder and the 
more urgently it lured, the sharper was my resistance, till 
finally after a long inner struggle my sense of duty tri- 
umphed. This struggle had already been decided for me 
during the winter of 1915-16. My will had finally become 
master. Whereas during the first days I was able to join 
exuberantly and laughingly in the storm, now I was quiet 
and determined. This was the most enduring. Only now 
could Fate set out for the last tests without tearing my 
nerves or my reason giving out. 

The young volunteer had become an old soldier. 

But this change had taken place in the entire army. It 
had become old and hard through perpetual fighting, and 
those who were not able to resist the storm were broken by it. 

But only now could one judge this army. Now, after 
two or three years during which it had been thrown from 
one battle into the other, constantly fighting against a force 
superior in number and weapons, suffering hunger and en- 
during deprivations, now was the time to prove the quality 
of this unique army. 

Thousands of years may pass, but never will one be 
allowed to talk about or mention heroism without remem- 
bering the German army of the World War. Then, out of 
the veil of the past, the iron front of the gray steel helmet 



816 MEIN KAMPF 

will become visible, not wavering and not retreating, a mon- 
ument to immortality. As long as Germans live they will 
remember that these were the sons of their nation, 
f At that time I was a soldier and did not want to discuss 
politics. It really was not the time for it. I am still con- 
vinced today that even the most humble carter had done 
his fatherland more valuable services than the first, let us 
say, 'parliamentarian.' I never hated these prattlers more 
than just at that time, when every regular fellow who had 
to say something shouted it into the enemy's face, or, more 
appropriately, left his mouth at home and silently did his 
duty in some place. Yes, in those days I hated all these 
'politicians, 1 and if I had had anything to say, a parlia- 
mentarian spade battalion would have been formed at 
once; then they would have been able to babble among 
themselves to their hearts 1 content if they had to, and they 
would not have been able to annoy or even to harm the 
decent and honest part of mankind. ^ 

At that time, therefore, I did not want to hear anything 
about politics, but I could not help defining my attitude 
towards certain manifestations which concerned, after all, 
the entire nation, but most of all us soldiers, 
f There were two things which in those days annoyed me 
and which I considered detrimental. 

Soon after the news of the first victories, a certain press 

Not a few of the Reichstag delegates served at the front; 
some were killed in action. Most of the others were beyond 
military age, and some of these served on difficult and danger- 
ous missions. More interesting is the unrestrained endorse- 
ment of LudendorfFa military totalitarianism the absolute 
disavowal of political action in time of war. The wicked ones 
are those who believed that peace might be reached, after years 
of destructive warfare, on a basis of compromise and who felt 
that Germany, by giving guarantees not to violate the integrity 
of Belgium, might divide her foes. 



THE WORLD WAR 217 

began slowly, and at first perhaps unrecognizably to many, 
to pour drops of wormwood into the general enthusiasm. 
This was done under the mask of a certain benevolence 
and well-meaning, even of a certain anxiety. One harbored 
doubts about too great an exuberance in celebrating the 
victories. One feared that in this form it was unworthy and 
did not correspond to the dignity of such a great nation. 
The bravery and the heroic courage of the German soldier 
were really a matter of course, and one should not be carried 
away too much by thoughtless outbursts of joy, especially 
for the sake of public opinion abroad which would certainly 
be more impressed by a quiet and dignified form of joy than 
by excessive exultation, etc. Finally we Germans were not 
to forget even now that the war had not been our intention, 
and that therefore we should not be ashamed to admit, 
openly and like men, that we were ready to contribute, at 
any time, our share towards the reconciliation of mankind. 
Therefore it would not be wise to blacken the purity of the 
army's deeds with too much shouting, as the rest of the 
world would show but little understanding for such behav- 
ior. One admired nothing more than the modesty with 
which a genuine hero quietly and silently forgets his 
deeds; for this was supposed to be the essence of the whole 
affair. 

But now, instead of taking such a fellow by his long ears 
and leading him to, and pulling him up on, a high pole with 
a rope, so that the celebrating nation would no longer be 
able to insult the aesthetic feeling of this knight of the ink, 
one actually began to protest this 'unseemly' manner of 
jubilating over victories. 

One had not the faintest idea, however, that this enthu- 
siasm, once it has been broken, cannot be reawakened at 
will. It is an intoxication and it is best to keep it in this 
condition. But how was one to endure in a fight without 
this power, a fight which in all human probability made the 



211 MEIN KAMPF 

most enormous demands on the spiritual qualities of the 
nation? 

I knew the psyche of the great masses only too well not 
to know that one would not be able to stoke the fire neces- 
sary to keep this iron hot with 'aesthetic 9 elation. In my 
eyes one was mad because nothing was done to increase this 
boiling heat of passion; but I simply could not understand 
that one even curtailed that which fortunately was present. 

The second thing that annoyed me was the way and the 
manner in which one thought fit to face Marxism. In my 
eyes, this only proved that one really had not the slightest 
idea of this pestilence. One seemed to believe, in all seri- 
ousness, that by the assurance that one no longer knew 
parties, one thought one had brought Marxism to reason 
and restraint. 

That here one has to deal not with a party but with a 
doctrine which must of necessity lead to the destruction of 
entire mankind, this one understood the less as one did not 
hear it in the Jew-infested universities, and as otherwise 
only too many of our higher officials, particularly, out of 
idiotic conceit, inculcated in them by education, did not 
think it worth the trouble to pick up a book and to learn 
something which did not belong in the curriculum of their 
high school. The most important changes pass by these 
'heads' without leaving a trace, and therefore the State 
institutions nearly always lag behind the private ones. God 
knows that to them, most of all, the popular proverb ap- 
plies: 'Was der Bauer nicht kennt, das frisst er nicht 9 [a 
peasant does not eat what he does not know]. 

It was an unequaled absurdity to identify the German 
worker with Marxism in the days of August, 1914. In 
those hours the German worker had disentangled himself 
from the embrace of this poisonous plague, as otherwise he 
would never have been able to start this fight. But one was 
stupid enough to think that Marxism had now perhaps 



THE WORLD WAR 219 

become ' national ' ; a flash of genius which only shows that 
during these long years none of these official State leaders 
had thought it worth the trouble to study the nature of this 
doctrine, for otherwise such insanity would hardly have 
occurred.-^ 

Marxism, the ultimate aim of which was and will always 
be the destruction of all non-Jewish national States, to its 
dismay saw during July, 1914, the German working class, 
which it had ensnared, awake to enlist in the service of the 
country more and more quickly from hour to hour. In a 
few days the whole show of this infamous deception of the 
nation had frittered away, and the Jewish rabble leaders 
stood there lonely and abandoned, as though not a trace 
of the idiocy and lunacy which it had infiltered into the 
masses for sixty years remained. It was a bad moment for 
the deceivers of the German nation 's working class. But 
immediately the leaders recognized the danger which 
threatened them, they at once pulled the magic cap of lies 
over their ears and impudently joined in aping the national 
rising. 

But now the time should have arrived for proceeding 
against the entire fraudulent company of these Jewish 
poisonmongers of the nation. Now one should have dealt 
summarily with them without the slightest consideration 
for the clamor that would probably arise, or, what would 
have been still better, without pity for all their lamenta- 
tions. In August of the year 1914, the Jewish haggling of 
international solidarity had disappeared at one stroke from 
the heads of the German working class, and instead, after a 
few weeks, American shrapnel began to pour down the 
blessings of fraternity on the helmets of the marching col- 
umns. It was the duty of a prudent government, now that 
the German laborer had found his way back to his nation- 
ality, to root out without pity the instigators against this 
nationality. 



220 MEIN KAMPF 

If the best were killed on the front, then one could at 
least destroy the vermin at home. 

But instead of this, His Majesty the Kaiser in person 
extended his hand towards the old criminals, thus showing 
the cunning murderers of the nation forbearance and 
giving them the chance to set their minds at ease, 
f Now the serpent had a chance to continue its work, more 
carefully than before but also more dangerously. While the 
honest ones were dreaming of peace within the castle walls, 
the perjured criminals organized the revolution. 

It made me discontented in my mind that at that time 
one had decided on such terrible half measures; but that 
its end would be such a terrible one even I would not have 
thought possible. 

But what was to be done now? To put the leaders of the 
whole movement behind lock and bar, to put them on trial 
and deliver the nation of them. To apply ruthlessly the 
entire military means in order to root out this pestilence. 
The parties had to be dissolved, the Reichstag, if necessary, 
to be brought to reason at the point of the bayonet, but, 
better still, to adjourn it immediately. Just as today the 
Republic is allowed to dissolve parties, one would have had 
more reason to apply similar means in those days. The ex- 
istence or non-existence of an entire nation was at stake ! 

But then, of course, a question arose: Can spiritual ideas 
be extinguished by the sword? Can one fight 'views of life 1 
by applying brute force? 

Even then I asked myself this question more than once. 

When thinking over analogous cases to be found in his- 
tory, particularly on a religious basis, the following funda- 
mental realization is the result: 

Conceptions and ideas, as well as movements with a cer- 
tain spiritual foundation, may these be right or wrong, can 
be broken at a certain point of their development with 
technical means of power only if these physical weapons are 



THE WORLD WAR 221 

at the same time the supporters of a new kindling thought, 
an idea or view of life. 

Use of force alone, without the driving forces of a spir- 
itual basic idea as presupposition, can never lead to the 
destruction of an idea and its spreading, except in the form 
of a thorough eradication of even the last representative 
and the destruction of the last tradition. This, however, 
means the disappearance of such a State body for endless 
times, sometimes forever, from the circle of political and 
powerful importance, as such a sacrifice in blood, as shown 
by experience, often hits the best part of a nationality, be- 
cause every persecution that takes place without being 
based on a spiritual presupposition does not seem justified 
from the moral point of view, thus instigating just the more 
valuable parts of a nation to voice a protest which then 
expresses itself in the acquisition of the spiritual contents 
of the unjustly persecuted movement. This happens with 
many merely out of the feeling of opposition against the 
attempt at throttling an idea by brute force. 

With this, however, the number of the internal adher- 
ents grows in the measure in which the persecution grows. 
Therefore, the complete extinction of a new doctrine can be 
carried out only by way of an eradication which is thorough 
and so constantly increasing that by this all the really val- 
uable blood is withdrawn from the nation or the State 
involved. But this will take its revenge, because there now 
can take place a so-called 'inner' purification, this, however, 
at the expense of a general weakness. But from the very 
beginning such procedure will be in vain if the doctrine tc 
be fought has already stepped outside of a certain small 
circle. 

As with all growth, here, too, the early period of child- 
hood offers the best possibility for such extinction, for with 
the growing years the force of resistance increases, till 
finally with approaching age it again gives way to the 



222 MEIN KAMPF 

weakness of youth, though in a different form and for other 
reasons. 

It is a fact that all attempts at the extinction of a doc- 
trine and its organizatory effects by force without a spir- 
itual foundation lead to failures and frequently even end 
contrary to that desired, for the following reason: 

The very first condition for such a manner of fight with 
the weapons of pure force is, and will always be, persever- 
ance. That means that only the continued and regular use 
of the methods applied for suppressing a doctrine permits 
of the possibility of success. But as soon as intermittent 
force alternates with indulgence, the doctrine to be sup- 
pressed will not only recover again and again, but it will be 
able to draw new values from every persecution, for after 
the ebbing of such a wave of pressure, the indignation at 
the misery suffered leads new followers to the old doctrine, 
but those who are already present will with sharper spite 
and deeper hatred than before adhere to it, and even those 
who have fallen off will try to return to their old attitude 
after the danger has been averted. Only in the eternally 
regular use of force lies the preliminary condition for 
success. This perseverance is only and always the result of 
a certain spiritual conviction alone. All force which does 
not spring from a firm spiritual foundation will be hesitat- 
ing and uncertain. It lacks the stability which can only 
rest in a fanatical view of life. It is the outcome of the 
energy of the moment and the brutal determination of a 
single individual, but therefore it is subjected to the change 
of the personality and its nature and strength. 

But to this something else must be added : -&lt;* 

Every view of life, be it more of a political or of a religious 
nature (sometimes the borderline between them can be as- 
certained only with difficulty), fights less for the negative 
destruction of the adversary's world of ideas, and more for 
the positive carrying-out of its own doctrine. Therefore, its 



THE WORLD WAR 223 

fight is less a defense than an attack. Even as regards the 
definiteness of its goal, it has an advantage, as this goal 
represents the victory of its own idea, while the other way 
round it is difficult to decide when the negative aim of the 
destruction of the enemy's doctrine may be considered as 
completed and assured. For this reason alone the attack 
on a view of life will be more carefully planned and also 
more powerful than the defense of such a doctrine; as here, 
too, the decision is due to the attack and not to the defense. 
But the fight against a spiritual power by means of force is 
only a defense as long as the sword itself does not appear 
as the supporter, propagator, and announcer of a new spir- 
itual doctrine. 

Thus, summing up, one can say the following: 

Every attempt at fighting a view of life by means of force 
will finally fail, unless the fight against it represents the 
form of an attack for the sake of a new spiritual direction. 
Only in the struggle of two views of life with each other can 
the weapon of brute force, used continuously and ruth- 
lessly, bring about the decision in favor of the side it sup- 
ports. 

It was on this account that the fight against Marxism had 
failed so far. 

This was also the reason why Bismarck's anti-socialist 
laws finally failed and were bound to fail, despite all efforts. 
The platform of a new view of life was lacking for the rise 
of which the fight could have been fought. Only the pro- 
verbial wisdom of ministerial high officials could produce 
the opinion that the trash about the so-called 'State author- 
ity* and 'peace and order' could be a suitable basis for the 
spiritual impetus of a struggle for life and death. 
fBut because a really spiritual foundation of this fight 
was lacking, Bismarck was forced to hand the carrying-out 
of his anti-socialist laws to the judgment and the volition 
of those institutions which themselves were already the 



2S4 MEIN KAMPF 

product of the Marxian way of thinking. Thus the Iron 
Chancellor, by handing over the responsibility for his fight 
against Marxism to the benevolence of the bourgeois 
democracy, set the wolf to mind the sheep. 

But all this was only the necessary result of the lack of a 
fundamentally new view of life opposed to Marxism, with 
an impetuous will to conquer. 

Thus the result of Bismarck's fight was only a severe dis- 
appointment. 

But were circumstances different during or at the begin- 
ning of the World War? Unfortunately not. 

The more I occupied myself in those days with the idea 
of a necessary change in the attitude of State governments 
towards Social Democracy as the present personification of 
Marxism, the more I recognized the lack of a suitable sub- 
stitute for this doctrine. What, then, did one want to give 
to the masses, if one were to suppose that Social Democracy 
would be broken? There was not one movement of which 
one could have assumed that it would have succeeded in 
drawing under its spell the more or less leaderless great 
masses of workers. It is absurd and more than stupid to 
assume that the international fanatic who has left the class 
party would now immediately join a bourgeois party; that 
means a new class organization. No matter how disagree- 
able this may be for several organizations, it cannot be 
denied that to the bourgeois politician the separation of 
classes appears absolutely natural as long as the political 
effects are not unfavorable to him. 

The denial of these facts proves not only the impudence 
but also the stupidity of the liars, i 

On the whole, one should guard against believing the 
great masses to be more stupid than they actually are. In 
political matters feeling often decides more accurately than 
reason. The opinion, however, that the masses 9 stupid 
international attitude is sufficient proof of the incorrectness 



THE WORLD WAR 225 

of their feeling can be refuted thoroughly at once by the 
simple argument that the pacifistic democracy is not less 
insane, but that its supporters come almost exclusively 
from the bourgeois camp. As long as millions of citizens 
ardently worship the Jewish democratic press every morn- 
ing, it would not do for the masters to make jokes about the 
stupidity of the 'comrade' who, after all, devours only the 
same rubbish though in a different makeup. In both cases 
the manufacturer is one and the same Jew. 

Therefore, one should guard well against refuting things 
which actually exist. The fact that the class question is not 
at all one of spiritual problems as one would like to make us 
believe, especially before elections, cannot be denied. The 
class pride of a great part of our people, just like the low 
esteem of the hand laborer, is, above all, a symptom which 
does not come from the imagination of one who is moon- 
struck. 

But apart from this, it shows the inferior thinking ability 
of our so-called intelligentsia when just in those circles one 
does not understand that a condition which was not able to 
prevent the rise of a pestilence, such as Marxism, will far 
less be able to regain that which is lost. 

The ' bourgeois ' parties, as they call themselves, will never 
be able to draw the 4 proletarian ' masses into their camp, as 
here two worlds face each other, separated partly naturally, 
partly artificially, and their attitude towards each other 
can only be a fighting one. But here the younger one will 
succeed and this would be Marxism. ^ 

In fact, a fight against Social Democracy in 1914 was 
conceivable, but it was doubtful how long this condition 
could have lasted because of the lack of every practical sub- 
stitute. 

There was a great gap. 

I was of this opinion long before the War, and therefore 
I could not make up my mind to join one of the existing 



226 MEIN KAMPF 

parties. This opinion was enhanced in the course of the 
events of the World War by the obvious impossibility of 
fighting ruthlessly against Social Democracy because of the 
absence of a movement which had to be more than a ' par- 
liamentarian' party. 

I talked openly about this to my more intimate friends. 

What is more, I now had for the first time the idea of 
occupying myself politically later on. 

And this was the particular reason that made me assure 
my small circle of friends that after the War I would be 
active as an orator along with my profession. 

I think that I meant this very seriously. 



CHAPTER VI 
WAR PROPAGANDA 



AT THE time of my attentive following of all political 
events, the activities of propaganda had always 
been of extremely great interest to me. In it I saw 
an instrument which just the Socialist-Marxist organiza- 
tions mastered and knew how to apply with expert skill. I 
learned very soon that the right use of propaganda repre- 
sents an art which was and remained almost entirely un- 
known to the bourgeois parties. Only the Christian-Social- 
ist movement, especially during Lueger's time, acquired a 
certain virtuosity with this instrument and it owed much of 
its success to it. 

But it was shown only during the War to what enor- 
mously important results a suitably applied propaganda 
may lead. Unfortunately, everything has to be studied on 
the other side; for the activity on our side was more than 
modest in this respect. However, the very failure of the en- 
tire enlightenment on the side of the Germans a fact 
which was bound to stare in the face of every soldier now 
caused me to occupy myself still more thoroughly with 
this question. 

There was often more than enough time for thinking, 
but it was unfortunately the enemy who gave us only too 
good an object lesson. 



228 MEIN KAMPF 

For what we failed to do in this direction was made up 
by the enemy with really unheard-of skill and ingenious 
deliberation. I learned infinitely much more from the 
enemy's war propaganda. But time marched on without 
leaving an impression on the brains of those who most of 
all should have taken this as a lesson; partly because they 
deemed themselves too clever to take lessons from others, 
and partly because the honest will to do so was lacking. 

Was there any propaganda at all on our side? 

To my regret, I can only answer no. Everything that 
was actually undertaken in this direction was so incomplete 
and wrong from the very first moment that it not only did 
not help, tnit sometimes did considerable harm. 

Insufficient in form its nature was psychologically wrong : 
this was necessarily the result of a careful examination of 
the German war propaganda. 

It seemed that one was not quite clear about the first 
question, namely: Is war propaganda a means or an end? 

It is a means, and therefore it has to be judged from the 
point of view of the end. But its form has to be properly 
adapted to the aim which it serves. But it is also clear that 
the importance of its aim can be a different one according 
to the point of view of the general demand and that there- 
fore propaganda is also defined differently according to its 
inner value. But the aim for which the War was fought 
was the most sublime and the most overpowering which 
man is able to imagine: it was the freedom and independence 
of our nation, the assurance of subsistence for the future, 
and the honor of the nation; something that, despite all 
opinions to the contrary, is still present today or rather 
ought to be present, as nations without honor usually lose 
their freedom and independence, which, in turn, cor- 
responds only to a higher justice, as generations of scoun- 
drels without honor do not deserve freedom. But he who 
wants to be a cowardly slave must not and cannot have 




WAR PROPAGANDA 2S9 

any honor, as thus honor would become subject to general 
disdain within the shortest time. 

It was for the struggle for its human existence that the 
German people fought, and to support this si 
purpose of the war propaganda; the aim 
it to victory. 

But if nations fight for their existenc 
that means if they are approached by 
of ' to be or not to be ' all reflections 

ity or aesthetics resolve themselves to n^ 

eluded; because all these ideas are not flodKnc^atout in they^v 
world ether, but come from the imaginat* 
are connected with him. His departure from 
dissolves these ideas into insubstantial non-&lt; 
Nature does not know them. But in mankind, too, they are 
characteristics of only a few people or rather races accord- 
ing to the measure in which they originate from their feel- 
ings. Humanity and aesthetics would even disappear from 
a world inhabited by men as soon as it lost the races which 
are the creators and bearers of these ideas. 

Where a people's fight for existence in this world is con- 
cerned, all these ideas are of subordinate importance; they 
even have no bearing on the form of this struggle at all as 
soon as they might bring on a paralysis of the struggling 
nation's force of self-preservation. But in this case this is 
always the only visible result. 

As regards the question of humanity, Moltke once ex- 
pressed himself to the effect that in case of war humanity 
always resides in the brevity of the procedure, so that the 
sharpest kind of fight is most suitable for it. 

However, if one were now to try to bring up the drivel 
of aesthetics, etc., where these considerations are concerned, 
there can be really only one answer to it: questions of des- 
tiny, as important as a people's struggle for existence, elim- 
inate all obligation towards beauty. The least beauti- 



230 MEIN KAMPF 

ful that can exist in human life is and remains the yoke of 
slavery. Or does this Schwdbing decadence perhaps per- 
ceive tne present-day fate of the German nation as 'aes- 
thetic 1 ? There is certainly no need to discuss this with the 
Jews, the modern inventors of this culture perfume. Their 
entire existence is a protest incarnate against the aesthetics 
of the Lord's image. 

But once these^, points of view of humanity and beauty 
are beside the point where the struggle is concerned, they 
cannot be applied as a means to measure propaganda. 

During the War propaganda was a means to an end, but 
this in turn was the German people's fight for existence; 
thus propaganda could therefore be looked upon only from 
the principles proper to it. Then the most cruel weapons 
were humane if they conditioned the quicker victory, and 
beautiful were only those methods which helped the nation 
to secure the dignity of its freedom. 

This was the only possible attitude towards the question 
of war propaganda in such a fight for life or death. 

Had the so-called responsible authorities made this clear 
to themselves, the uncertainty about the form and the ap- 
plication of this weapon would never have originated; for 
this is also only a weapon, though a frightful one, in the 
hand of the expert. 

fThe second question of actually decisive importance was 
the following: To whom has propaganda to appeal? To 
the scientific intelligentsia or to the less educated masses? 

It has to appeal forever and only to the masses! 
: Propaganda is not for the intelligentsia or for those who 
unfortunately call themselves by that name today, but 
scientific teaching. But propaganda is in its contents as 
far from being science as perhaps a poster is art in its pre- 
sentation as such. A poster's art lies in the designer's 
ability to catch the masses' attention by outline and color. 
The poster for an art exhibition has to point only to the art 



WAR PROPAGANDA 231 

of the exhibition; the more it succeeds in this, the greater 
therefore is the art of the poster itself. Further, the poster 
is to give to the masses an idea of the importance of the ex- 
hibition, but it is in no way to be a substitute for the art 
represented by the exhibition. Therefore, he who wants to 
occupy himself with art itself has really to study more than 
the poster; yes, for him it is by far not sufficient merely to 
'walk through' the exhibition. It may be expected of him 
that he bury himself in the individual works by thoroughly 
looking them over so that then he may gradually form a just 
opinion for himself. 

The situation is a similar one with what today we call 
propaganda. 

The task of propaganda lies not in a scientific training of 
the individual, but rather in directing the masses towards 
certain facts, events, necessities, etc., the purpose being to 
move their importance into the masses' field of vision. 

The art now is exclusively to attack this so skillfully that 
a general conviction of the reality of a fact, of the necessity 

Hitler says he awakened during the War to the importance 
of propaganda, discovered that German methods were too 
high-brow and too little adapted to drum up popular emotion, 
and learned that the first rule of the propagandist must be to 
find out what will affect the masses. In view of the fact that 
propaganda became a fundamental concern of the Nazi r6gime, 
some attention to Hitler's contributions to this science is called 
for. There is a convenient analysis in Propaganda Analysis, 
Vol. I (New York, 1938). This essay, prepared by experts, 
reveals very clearly how the various weapons of the militant 
propagandist e.g., calling names have been employed. It 
relegates to a position of minor importance, an aspect of the 
matter on which Hitler lays great stress that the propa- 
gandist who is trying to wage war must eliminate the 'esthetic' 
and concentrate on stirring up hatred. Therefore this may be 
emphasized here. Many are convinced (and base this convic- 



232 MEIN KAMPF 

of an event, that something; that is necessary is also right, 
etc., is created. But as it is not and cannot be science in it- 
self, as its task consists of catching the masses 9 attention, 
just like that of the poster, and not in teaching one who is 
already scientifically experienced or is striving towards 
education and knowledge, its effect has always to be directed 
more and more towards the feeling, and only to a certain 
extent to so-called reason.** 

All propaganda has to be popular and has to adapt its 
spiritual level to the perception of the least intelligent of 
those towards whom it intends to direct itself. Therefore its 
spiritual level has to be screwed the lower, the greater the 
mass of people which one wants to attract. But if the prob- 
lem involved, like the propaganda for carrying on a war, is 
to include an entire people in its field of action, the caution 

tion on long personal experience) that the most effective in- 
strument in the Nazi propagandist's hands has been the 
spectacle of cruelty. When masses of men have been repressed 
for a long time by adverse social, political and economic con- 
ditions, they seem to accept the open expression above all 
the open demonstration of hatred with deep satisfaction. 
Almost every war is followed by strange manias of persecution 
which affect the civilian population more than they do the 
returning soldier, unless that soldier deems himself a victim 
of ingratitude. Thus after 1918 the United States witnessed the 
spread of the Ku Klux Klan, a crusade against the 'Reds/ 
and several anti-negro riots in major cities. In France hostility 
to American and other foreign troops was so marked that 
cantonments had to be evacuated more speedily than had been 
planned. 

In Germany, at all events, one principal reason why the 
Rightist revolt against the Republic succeeded was the progres- 
sive emphasis upon hatred in action. The bloody repression 
which marked the end of the short-lived 'Soviet' state in 
Bavaria did not arouse sentiments of pity in all the citizens of 



WAR PROPAGANDA 233 

in avoiding too high spiritual assumptions cannot be too 
great. 

The more modest, then, its scientific ballast is, and the 
more it exclusively considers the feelings of the masses, the 
more striking will be its success. This, however, is the best 
proof whether a particular piece of propaganda is right or 
wrong, and not the successful satisfaction of a few scholars 
or ' aesthetic ' languishing monkeys. 

This is just the art of propaganda that it, understanding 
the great masses' world of ideas and feelings, finds, by a 
correct psychological form, the way to the attention, and 
further to the heart, of the great masses. That our super- 
clever heads never understand this proves only their men- 
tal inertia or their conceit. 

But if one understands the necessity of the attitude of 

Munich. The Hitler putsch of 1923 made the Party more 
popular in the city than it had been before. When the Nazis 
drove dissenters or imaginary dissenters from their meet- 
ings with cudgels, their audiences grew larger. Few people in 
Germany were at bottom anti-Semitic, but the joy large num- 
bers felt in promises of blood-curdling treatment to be meted 
out to the helpless minority made them responsive to the sug- 
gestion. Smashing windows and street fighting were relied 
upon to win the crowd. The propagandists encouraged them 
all. ' We shall reach our goal,' declared Goebbels, * when we have 
the courage to laugh as we destroy, as we smash, whatever was 
sacred to us as tradition, as education, as friendship and as 
human affection.' In the Vienna of March, 1938, ordinary 
citizens who had hitherto gone about peacefully, confessed to a 
strange delight in the sufferings visited upon the Jewish group. 
After a while that craving subsides in the great majority, to be 
followed by widespread loathing of what is termed 'barbarism. 9 
The pogrom of 1938, for example, elicited widespread open 
criticism. With such lapses of fervor the agents of propaganda 
must deal. 



234 MEIN KAMPF 

the attracting skill of propaganda towards the great masses, 
the following rule then results: 

It is wrong to wish to give propaganda the versatility 
of perhaps scientific teaching. 

The great masses 9 receptive ability is only very limited, 
their understanding is small, but their forgetfulness is 
great. As a consequence of these facts, all effective propa- 
ganda has to limit itself only to a very few points and to use 
them like slogans until even the very last man is able to 
imagine what is intended by such a word. As soon as one 
sacrifices this basic principle and tries to become versatile, 
the effect will fritter away, as the masses are neither able 
to digest the material offered nor to retain it. Thus the re- 
sult is weakened and finally eliminated. 

The greater the line of its representation has to be, the 
more correctly from the psychological point of view will 
its tactics have to be outlined. 

For example, it was completely wrong to ridicule the ad- 
versary as was done in Austrian and German propaganda 
in comic papers. It was basically wrong for the reason that 
when a man met the adversary in reality he was bound to re- 
ceive an entirely different impression; something that took 
its most terrible revenge; for now the German soldier, under 
the direct impression of the resistance of the enemy, felt 
himself deceived by those who so far were responsible for 
his enlightenment, and instead of strengthening his fight- 
ing spirit or even his firmness, quite the contrary occurred. 
The man despaired. 

Compared with this, the war propaganda of the British 
and the Americans was psychologically right. By introduc- 
ing the German as a barbarian and a Hun to its own people, 
it thus prepared the individual soldier for the terrors of war 
and helped guard him against disappointment. The most 
terrible weapon which was now being used against him then 
appeared to him only as the proof of the enlightenment al- 



WAR PROPAGANDA 835 

ready bestowed upon him, thus strengthening his belief that 
his government's assertions were right, and on the other 
hand it increased his fury and hatred against the atrocious 
enemy. For the cruel effect of the weapon of his enemy 
which he learned to know by his own experience appeared 
to him gradually as the proof of the already proclaimed 
'Hunnish' brutality of the barbaric enemy, without, how- 
ever, making him think for even a moment that his own 
weapons could have, perhaps, or even probably, a still more 
terrible effect. 

Thus the English soldier could not even for a moment 
have the impression that his country had taught him the 
wrong facts, something which was unfortunately the case 
to such an extent with the German soldier that he finally 
rejected everything that came from this side as 'swindle* 
and 'bunk' (Krampf). All these things were consequences 
of the fact that they believed they had a right to assign to 
propaganda just any idiot (or even 'otherwise* clever peo- 
ple) instead of understanding that sometimes even the 
most outstanding judges of the human soul are barely good 
enough for this purpose. 

Thus the German war propaganda offered an incom- 



Allied propaganda as such had no lasting effect upon soldiers 
at the Front; and we may be sure that Hitler was thinking 
rather of what could be done to keep enthusiasm alive among 
civilians. By 1917 French soldiers doubted every word that 
their papers printed; and yet those papers were no longer en- 
couraging waves of hatred but were stressing lofty ideals such 
as religious resignation and the beauty of a difficult task 
patiently done. ' I do not believe that the veteran soldier can 
thrive on hatred,' said an able writer at the time. And the 
greatest triumph British propaganda ever achieved was the 
promulgation of what later on became Mr. Wilson's ' Fourteen 
Points.' 



236 MEIN KAMPF 

parable lesson for teaching and instruction for an 'enlight- 
enment' that worked in just the reverse direction, in con- 
sequence of a complete lack of all psychologically suitable 
consideration. 

The enemy, however, offered no end of study material 
for one who, with open eyes and a feeling that had not yet 
become calcified, pondered over the flood wave of the 
enemy's propaganda which had stormed upon him during 
four and a half years. 

But least of all did one understand the very primary con- 
dition for all propagandistic activity as a whole: namely, 
the subjectively biased attitude of propaganda towards the 
questions to be dealt with. In this field one sinned from 
above in such a manner, and from the very beginning of the 
War, that one was entitled to doubt whether so much non- 
sense could actually only be ascribed to stupidity. 

What would one say about a poster, for instance, which 
was to advertise a new soap, and which nevertheless de- 
scribes other soaps as also being 'good'? 

At this one would certainly shake one's head. 

Exactly the same is the case with political advertising. 

Propaganda's task is, for instance, not to evaluate the 
various rights, but far more to stress exclusively the one 
that is to be represented by it. It has not to search into 
truth as far as this is favorable to others, in order to present 
it then to the masses with doctrinary honesty, but it has 
rather to serve its own truth uninterruptedly. 

It was fundamentally wrong to discuss the war guilt 
from the point of view that not Germany alone could be 
made responsible for the outbreak of this catastrophe, but 
it would have been far better to burden the enemy entirely 
with this guilt, even if this had not been in accordance 
with the real facts, as was indeed the case. 

What, now, was the consequence of these half measures? 

The great mass of a people is not composed of diplomats 



WAR PROPAGANDA 237 

or even teachers of political law, nor even of purely reason* 
able individuals who are able to pass judgment, but of 
human beings who are as undecided as they are inclined to- 
wards doubts and uncertainty. As soon as by one's own 
propaganda even a glimpse of right on the other side is ad- 
mitted, the cause for doubting one's own right is laid. The 
masses are not in a position to distinguish where the wrong 
of the others ends and their own begins. In this case they 
become uncertain and mistrusting, especially if the enemy 
does not produce the same nonsense, but, in turn, burdens 
their enemy with all and the whole guilt. What is more 
easily explained than that finally one's own people believe 
more in the enemy's propaganda, which proceeds more 
completely and more uniformly, than in one's own? This, 
however, may be said most easily of a people which suffers 
so severely from the mania of objectivity as the German 
people does. For now they will take pains not to do an in- 
justice to the enemy, even at the risk of the severest strain 
on, or destruction of, his own nation and State. 

But the masses do not at all realize that this is not the in- 
tention of the responsible authorities. 

The people, in an overwhelming majority, are so feminine 
in their nature and attitude that their activities and 
thoughts are motivated less by sober consideration than by 
feeling and sentiment. 

This sentiment, however, is not complicated but very 
simple and complete. There are not many differentiations, 
but rather a positive or a negative; love or hate, right or 
wrong, truth or lie; but never half this and half that, or 
partially, etc. 

The English propaganda understood and considered all 
this in the most ingenious manner. There were really no 
half measures which perhaps might have given cause for 
doubt. 

The proof of this brilliant knowledge of the primitiveness 



238 MEIN KAMPF 

of feeling of the great masses was to be found in the atrocity 
propaganda that had been adapted to this, thus ruthlessly 
and ingeniously securing moral steadfastness at the front, 
even during the greatest defeats, and further in the just as 
striking pinning down of the German enemy as the only 
party guilty of the War's outbreak; a lie, the unsurpassed, 
impudent, and biased stubbornness of which and how it 
was brought forth took into account the sentimental and 
extreme attitude of this great people and therefore gained 
credence. 

fBut how effective this kind of propaganda is is shown 
most strikingly by the fact that after four years it was not 
only able to make the enemy hold his own, but it even be- 
gan to eat into our own people. 

We must not be surprised, however, that our propaganda 
was not rewarded with this success. Its inner ambiguity 
included the germ of failure. But finally, in consequence 
of its contents, it was hardly probable that it would make 
the necessary impression on the masses. Only our brainless 
'statesmen' were able to hope that with this stale pacifistic 
dishwater one could succeed in arousing men to die volun- 
tarily. 

Thus this miserable stuff was useless, even harmful. 

Nevertheless, all geniality in the makeup of propaganda 
will not lead to success unless a fundamental principle is 
considered with continually sharp attention : it has to con- 
fine itself to little and to repeat this eternally. Here, too, 
persistency, as in so many other things in this world, is 
the first and the most important condition for success. 

In the field of propaganda particularly one must never 
be guided by aestheticists or blast persons; not by the first, 
because otherwise propaganda's form and expression would 
after a short time, instead of being suitable for the masses, 
only have an attraction for literary tea parties; but against 
the second one ought to guard oneself carefully for the rea- 



WAR PROPAGANDA 239 

son that their shortage of fresh sentiments of their own is 
always looking for new stimulants. These people tire of 
everything after a short time; they want a change and they 
will never understand or be able to imagine the needs of 
their fellow citizens who are not yet so hard-boiled. They 
are always the first critics of propaganda, or rather of its 
content, which appears to them to be too old, too hack- 
neyed, then again too out-of-date, etc. They always want 
something new, they look for changes, thus becoming mor- 
tal enemies of any effective winning of the masses. For as 
soon as the organization and the content of a propaganda 
begin to orientate themselves after their needs, it will lose 
all complexity and will completely fritter itself away in- 
stead. 

Now the purpose of propaganda is not continually to 
produce interesting changes for a few blast little masters, 
but to convince; that means, to convince the masses. The 
masses, however, with their inertia, always need a certain 
time before they are ready even to notice a thing, and they 
will lend their memories only to the thousandfold repetition 
of the most simple ideas. &lt; 

A change must never alter the content of what is being 
brought forth by propaganda, but in the end it always has 
to say the same. Thus the slogan has to be illuminated 
from various sides, but the end of every reflection has al- 
ways and again to be the slogan itself. Only thus can and 
will propaganda have uniform and complete effect. 

This great line alone, which one must never leave, brings 
the final success to maturity by continually regular and 
consistent emphasis. But then one will be able to deter- 

This is very true and Hitler has demonstrated it. From 1920 
to 1933 he permitted himself few variations. His was always 
the same pose, the same gestures (fists clutched and shaken in 
front of his face, right arm stretched above his head with the 



240 MEIN KAMPF 

mine with astonishment to what enormous and hardly un- 
derstandable results such perseverance will lead. 

All advertising, whether it lies in the field of business or 
of politics, will carry success by continuity and regular 
uniformity of application. 

Here, too, the enemy's war propaganda set a typical ex- 
ample. It was limited to a few points of view, calculated 
exclusively for the masses, and it was carried out with un- 
tiring persistency. Basic ideas and forms of execution 
which had once been recognized as being right were em- 
ployed throughout the entire War, and never did one make 
even the slightest change. At the beginning it was appar- 
ently crazy in the impudence of its assertions, later it be- 
came disagreeable, and finally it was believed. After four 
and a half years a revolution broke out in Germany the 
slogan of which came from the enemy's war propaganda. 

In England, however, one understood one thing more: 
that for this spiritual weapon the possible success lies only 
in the mass of its application, but that success amply covers 
all expenses. 

There, propaganda was considered a weapon of the first 
order, whereas with us it was the last bread of the politician 
without office, and a pot-boiler for the modest hero. 

All in all, its effect was just nil. 

index finger pointing toward the heavens), the same theme. 
The rhythm of the National-Socialist march is unmistakable; 
the conventions which surround official meetings are never 
dispensed with. There is always music of an approved military 
variety. 

The propaganda intended for consumption in foreign coun- 
tries has been carefully adjusted to meet the requirements. 
Every country has its quota of agents, to whom money, ma- 
terials and instructions are freely supplied. Ernst Wilhelro 
Bohle, manager of the Foreign Organization 



WAR PROPAGANDA 241 

isation) of the Party has associated with him the heads of a 
number of other groups also working in their way to inter- 
nationalize the doctrines of National Socialism. The two most 
effective weapons are these: the contention that Hitler is the 
bulwark of Western civilization against the revolutionary 
machinations of Moscow; and the doctrine that Jewry is the 
root of all evil. There are many people in this world who fear 
the Bolshevists; there are equally many who can be persuaded 
to dislike the Jew. Whenever violent nationalism is in the 
ascendancy, as is the case at present, both Jew and believing 
Christian necessarily suffer, but the first is at an especial dis- 
advantage because he can be stigmatized as a member of an 
alien race. Yet there are other things, too, which the propa- 
ganda attempts to stress the debt of civilization to the 
'Nordic'; the sins inherent in the democratic system of gov- 
ernment; and the blessings of totalitarianism. 

Throughout the Balkans, where there are in every country 
important Jewish minorities, this propaganda falls on welcome 
ears, particularly since a great number of peasants now 
for the most part in economic straits have long since been 
anti-Semitic. In Slovakia and northern Hungary, the disarray 
attendant upon the Munich settlement seems to have encour- 
aged a kind of belief that Hitler is the Grand Mogul. Roumania, 
Jugoslavia, and other States are torn between 'Fascist* and 
'anti-Fascist 1 propaganda. A particularly interesting example 
is Greece, whence young ladies and gentlemen have traveled 
to Germany at Nazi expense, then to set their experiences 
down in books and brochures. The government of the country 
being a dictatorship, there seems to be considerable official 
willingness to foster sympathy for Hitler. 

In Switzerland a determined government found it necessary 
during 1938 to ferret out a whole group of Nazi agents and spies. 
Some of these lived in fashionable hotels, adorning their rooms 
with photographs of Hitler and Goebbels and dispensing hospi- 
tality on a lavish scale. The Swiss government unearthed a 
scheme for settling all the German nationals in the Canton of 
St. Gallen, dose to the Austrian border. The Basle police ar- 
rested a ring of agents who had been active in Alsace-Lorraine 



42 MEIN KAMPF 

Holland and Belgium, too, are under considerable Nazi pres- 
sure, but in both countries the vigorous stand taken by the 
Catholic hierarchy has presented a formidable obstacle. France 
has witnessed, primarily as a result of the ' new deal ' sponsored 
by L6on Blum, a recrudescence of anti-Semitism, but this has 
little to do, in all probability, with Nazi influence. There are 
some French propagandists for Nazism, notable Alphonse de 
Chateaubriant and Darquier de Pellepoix. Nazi aid was 
granted to General Franco in Spain, and as a result a vast 
amount of Nazi propaganda is spread throughout insurgent 
territory. 

The United States has had to deal with Nazi agents on nu- 
merous occasions. The Dickstein Committee and the Dies 
Committee have heard reams of testimony, usually of a some- 
what confused kind, concerning among other things the 
Deutscher Volksbund (German Folk Association) and other or- 
ganizations friendly to Hitler. During 1938 a federal grand 
jury indicted, tried, and found guilty a number of persons in- 
volved in a plot to obtain military secrets. A number of ' Fas- 
cist* organizations throughout the country receive literature 
directly from German sources, the most important of which are 
the Fichtc-Bund and World Service. Naturalized Germans 
resident in the country are expected to fill out formulae indi- 
cating their ancestry and their present political convictions. 
Subtler methods of exercising influence are analyzed in The 
German Reich and Americans of German Origin, which lists 
many ties binding citizens of this country to the Third Reich. 
Cf. also The Nazi International (London, Friends of Europe 
Publications, Nr. 69). 



CHAPTER VII 
THE REVOLUTION 



fiN THE year 1915 the enemy's propaganda had started 
I on our side ; in 1 9 1 6 it became more and more intensive, 
till finally, at the beginning of the year 1918, it swelled to 
a very flood. Now one could recognize the results of this 
fishing for souls on all sides. The army gradually learned to 
think the way the enemy wished it to. 

The German counter-action failed completely. 

The army, by virtue of the spirit and will power of its 
leader at that time, certainly had the intention and de- 
termination to take up the battle in this field also, but it 
lacked the instrument which would have been necessary 
to do so. From the psychological point of view also it was 
wrong that this enlightenment be carried out by the troops 
themselves. If it was to be effective, it had to come from 
home. Only then could one expect to be successful with 
men who, in the end, had performed immortal deeds of 
heroism and sacrifice for their home country for almost 
four years. 

But what did come from home? 

Was this failure stupidity or criminal? 

In the height of the summer of 1918, after the southern 
banks of the Marne had been cleared, the German press, 
above all. behaved so miserably and clumsily, nay crim- 



244 MEIN KAMPF 

inally stupidly, that with my daily growing wrath the ques- 
tion arose in my mind whether there was really nobody at 
all who would put an end to this waste of the army's spirit- 
ual heroism? 

What happened in France, when in the year 1914 we 
rushed into that country in an unheard-of victorious storm? 
What did Italy do in the days of the collapse of its front 
on the Isonzo? What again did France do in the spring of 
1918 when the stormy assaults of the German divisions 
seemed to unhinge its positions and when the far-reaching 
arm of the heavy long-distance batteries began to knock at 
the doors of Paris? 

How had the fever heat of national passion been whipped 
into the faces of the hastily retreating regiments! How did 
propaganda and ingenious influence work on the masses 
in order to hammer the faith in a final victory into the 
hearts of the broken fronts ! 

But what was done on our side? 

Nothing, or even worse than that. 

At that time I often felt fury and indignation rise in me 
whenever we received the latest papers which enabled us 
to read of this psychological mass-murder which was being 
carried out. 

But more than once I was tormented by the thought 
that, if Destiny had put me in the place of these incapable 
or criminal scamps or incompetents of our propagand a serv- 
ice, a different kind of battle would have been announced 
to Destiny. 

In those months, for the first time, I felt fully the whims 
of fortune which kept me at the front in a place where any 
lucky move on the part of a negro could shoot me down, 
while somewhere else I would have been able to render a 
different service to my country. 

For I was bold enough to believe even then that I would 
have succeeded in thuu 



THE REVOLUTION 245 

However. I was one without a name, one among eight 
millions! 

Therefore it was better to keep my mouth shut and to do 
my duty as best I could. 



In the summer of 191 j the enemy's first leaflets fell into 
our hands. 

Despite some changes in form, their contents were 
nearly always the same, namely: that distress in Germany 
was growing more and more; that the duration of the war 
would be endless, while the hope of winning it was dwin- 
dling gradually; that the people at home were longing for 
peace for this reason, but that 'militarism' as well as the 
'Kaiser' would not permit this; that the entire world 
(which was very well aware of this) therefore did not fight 
against the German people, but rather exclusively against 
the sole culprit, the Kaiser; that this fight would not end 
unless this enemy of peaceful mankind should be eliminated ; 
that after the end of the War, the liberal and democratic 
nations, however, would accept Germany into the league 
of eternal world peace which would be assured from the 
hour when ' Prussian ' militarism was destroyed. 

For the better illustration of what was thus presented 
'letters from home' were not infrequently reprinted, the 
contents of which seemed to corroborate these statements. 

But in those days one generally merely laughed at these 
attempts. The leaflets were read, then passed on to the 
rear to the higher army staffs, then they were usually for- 
gotten till the wind forwarded a new shipment into the 
trenches from above; for it was mostly airplanes which 
served for bringing over these leaflets. 

In the nature of this propaganda, one point was bound 
to attract attention, that is, that in every section of the 
trenches where there were Bavarians, it persistently made 



246 MEIN KAMPF 

front against Prussia by asserting not only that the latter 
was the real culprit and solely responsible for the entire 
War, but that there was not the slightest hostility against 
Bavaria; however, one would not be able to help her as 
long as she assisted in serving Prussian militarism, by pull- 
ing its chestnuts out of the fire. 

As early as the year 1915 this sort of persuasion actually 
began to have definite effects. Among the troops the feeling 
against Prussia grew quite visibly but the authorities 
did not even once interfere. This was even worse than a sin 
of omission, for sooner or later it was bound to take a most 
unfortunate revenge, not only on the 'Prussians' but on 
the German people, and to this the Bavarians themselves 
last but not least belong. 

In this direction the hostile propaganda began to show 
decided success as early as the year 1916. 

In the same way, the lamenting letters from home had 
long since begun to have an effect. Now it was no longer 
necessary for the enemy to forward these letters to the 
front in the form of leaflets, etc. Also nothing was done 
against this except for some indescribably stupid 'warn- 
ings' from the 'side of the government.' Now, as before, 
the front was flooded with this poison, manufactured by 
thoughtless women at home, without their guessing, how- 
ever, that this was the means to strengthen enormously 
the enemy's belief in his victory, thus prolonging and in- 
creasing the sufferings of their own people on the battle 
front. The German women's silly letters in the time that 
followed cost hundreds of thousands of men their lives. 

Thus it was already in 1916 that various symptoms be- 
came apparent which would better not have been present. 
At the front one abused and 'grumbled/ one was already 
discontented with many things and sometimes justly so. 
While the front suffered hunger and deprivations, while the 
families at home were in distress, there was abundance 



THE REVOLUTION 247 

and revelry in other places. Nay, even on the battle front 
itself, not everything was as it should have been in this 
respect. 

Even then there was a slight crisis; however, these were 
still 'domestic' affairs. The same man who at first had 
cursed and grumbled, a few minutes later performed si- 
lently his duty as though this were a matter of course. 
The same company, which at first was discontented, clung 
to the section of the trenches it had to protect as though 
Germany's destiny depended upon these hundred meters 
of mud holes. It was still the front of the old and glorious 
army of heroes! 

I was to learn the difference between home and the army 
in a drastic change. 

At the end of September, 1916, my division joined in the 
Somme battle. For us this was the first of these enormous 
material battles, and it was only too difficult to describe 
our impressions. This really seemed to resemble hell rather 
than war. 

During weeks of a whirlwind of drum fire the German 
front stood its ground, pushed back a little at times, then 
pushing ahead again, but never retreating. 

On October 7, 1916, I was wounded. 

I was luckily brought to the rear and was to be sent to 
Germany with a transport. 

Two years now had passed since I had seen home, an 
almost endless time under these circumstances. I was 
hardly able to imagine what Germans who were not clad 
in uniforms looked like. When I was lying in the field hospi- 
tal at Hermies, I almost jumped from the shock when I 
suddenly heard the voice of a German woman she was a 
nurse speak to one of the men lying next to me. 

For the first time, a sound like that after two years! 

But the nearer the train which was to bring us home ap- 
oroached the border, the more restless each one of us be- 



248 MEIN KAMPF 

came. All the places passed by through which we had 
marched two years before as young soldiers: Brussels, 
Louvain, Lige, and finally we thought that we recognized 
the first German house by its high gable and its beautiful 
shutters. 

The fatherland! 

In October, 1914, we burned with wild enthusiasm when 
we passed the frontier; now quiet and emotion prevailed. 
Each one was happy that Destiny allowed him once more 
to see what he had to protect so earnestly with his life; 
and each one was almost ashamed to look the other in the 
eye. 

It was almost on the anniversary of the day of my march- 
ing out that I was brought into the hospital at Beelitz near 
Berlin. 

What a change! From the mud of the Somme battle into 
the white beds of this building of marvels! At the begin- 
ning one hardly dared to lie down properly. Only slowly 
was one able to become accustomed again to this new world. 

Unfortunately, this world was new in still another direc- 
tion. 

The spirit of the army on the front seemed no longer to 
be a guest here. I heard here for the first time something 
that was still unknown at the front: bragging about one's 
own cowardice! For, no matter how much one heard 
cursing and 'grousing 1 at the front, it was never an invita- 
tion to shirk duty or even a glorification of the coward. 
No. The coward was still considered a coward, and no 
more; and the contempt he met with was still general, ex- 
actly as the admiration paid the real hero. But here in the 
hospital it was already the reverse: the unprincipled agita- 
tors had the word and tried with all the means of their mis- 
erable eloquence to picture the idea of the honest soldier as 
ridiculous and the coward's lack of character as an exam- 
ple to be followed. A few wretched fellows, above all, set 



THE REVOLUTION 249 

the fashion. One of them bragged about having pulled 
his own hand through the barbed-wire fence so that he 
could come to the hospital; despite this ridiculous accident, 
he seemed to have been here an endless time, just as he had 
come in the transport to Germany by swindle. But this 
poisonous fellow actually went so far as to describe, with 
impudent cheek, his own cowardice as the result of a brav- 
ery higher than the heroic death of the honest soldier. 
Many listened in silence, others went out, but still others 
agreed with him. 

1 felt disgust rise in my throat, but the instigator was 
quietly tolerated in the hospital. What was to be done? 
The authorities must have known, and did know who and 
what he was. Yet nothing was done. 

When I was able to walk again, I was given permission 
to go to Berlin. 

It was apparent that distress was very great everywhere. 
The city of millions suffered hunger. Discontent was great. 
In various homes, however, where soldiers visited, the 
feeling was similar to that of the hospital. The general 
impression was as though these fellows intentionally sought 
out such places in order to air their opinions. 

But how much worse were conditions in Munich! 

When, after being cured, I was dismissed from the hos- 
pital and turned over to the reserve battalion, I thought I 



The winter of 1916 was a difficult one in all armies. War 
weariness, privation, and dissatisfaction with inevitable gov- 
ernmental inefficiency were rife everywhere. What Hitler says 
here concerning the feeling in Germany could be matched with 
reports from France and England. But in Munich and in- 
deed throughout most of Bavaria the situation was in a 
measure different. Ancient Bavarian particularism now made 
a scapegoat of Prussia, attributing to it the militarism that had 
plunged the Empire into war. Separatism was openly advo- 



250 MEIN KAMPF 

hardly recognized the town again. Anger, grumbling, and 
cursing met me on all sides. In the reserve battalion the 
feeling was beyond all criticism. The clumsy manner in 
which the soldiers from the front were treated by the old 
instruction officers, who had not been at the front for even 
an hour and who, for this reason alone, were able only par- 
tially to establish good relations with the old soldiers, con- 
tributed to this. The returning soldiers could not help but 
show certain peculiarities which were explicable by their 
service at the front, but which were and remained entirely 
incomprehensible to the leaders of the reserve units, while 
the officer who had also been at the front could understand 
them. Finally, the latter was respected by the men in quite 
a different way from the commanders from the rear. But 
quite apart from this, the general mood was more than bad ; 
shirking of duty was looked upon almost as a sign of higher 
wisdom, but faithful endurance as a sign of inner weakness 
and narrow-mindedness. But the offices of the authorities 

cated. By 1918, newspapers in northern Bavaria were counsel- 
ing sabotage of the War; and in alarm Crown Prince Rupprecht 
urged upon the High Command the necessity for making the 
speediest possible peace. Hitler's subsequent course was dic- 
tated in a measure by these phenomena. After the War 
Bavaria was a place of refuge for all nationalist agitators who 
were pursued by the Republic, but it was also the custodian of 
the monarchical and particularist doctrines. Its government 
was motivated by a desire to put Rupprecht on the throne, and 
to regulate the affairs of Bavaria more or less independently of 
those of Germany as a whole. This could not be Hitler's pur- 
pose, since he was a Pan-German. Accordingly he tried to 
force the issue and to compel the Bavarian government to 
participate in a march on Berlin by staging the putsch of 1923. 
In a measure he was abetted by the fact that Rupprecht was 
averse to accepting the crown of Bavaria unless monarchical 
restoration took place throughout Germany. 



THE REVOLUTION 851 

were occupied by Jews. Almost every clerk a Jew and every 
Jew a clerk. I was amazed by this multitude of fighters of 
the Chosen People and could not help comparing them with 
the few representatives they had on the front. 

In the business world things were even worse. Here the 
Jewish people had really become 'indispensable/ fThe 
spider began slowly to suck the people's blood out of its 
pores. By way of the war societies one had found the instru- 
ment with which to put an end, bit by bit, to a national 
and free economy. 

Now one stressed the necessity of a limitless centraliza- 
tion. 

As early as in the year 1916-17 almost the entire pro- 
duction was indeed under the control of the Jewry of high 
finance. 

But against whom did the people's hatred direct itself? 

At that time I saw with horror a fate approach which, 
if it was not warded off in the eleventh hour, was bound to 
lead us to destruction. 

Jewish citizens of Germany at the time the War broke out 
numbered about 550,000. Of these 100,000 were in uniform, 
and of these four-fifths saw duty at the front. There were 
12,000 casualties, BO that the ratio was virtually the same as 
that for the population as a whole; 35,000 Jews were decorated 
for bravery; 23,000 were promoted; and 2000 received com- 
missions a remarkable fact seeing that prior to the War the 
Prussian army had barred Jewish officers. There were 165 Jew- 
ish aviators, a fifth of whom were killed in action. These fig- 
ures are based on official German war records. The first asser- 
tion that Jews had shirked their duty in war-time was made by 
General Ernest von Wrisberg. (Cf. his Erinnerungen.) Jewish 
veterans formed an organization of their own. General von 
Linsingen, a distinguished commander on the eastern front, 
applied for admission to this organization during 1933, on the 
ground that he had a Jewish grandmother. 



252 MEIN KAMPF 

While the Jew robbed the entire nation and pressed it 
under his rule, people agitated against the 'Prussians/ 
Exactly as on the front, at home nothing was done by the 
authorities against this poison propaganda. It seemed that 
one did not guess that Prussia's breakdown would not 
mean the rise for Bavaria, but that, on the contrary, the 
downfall of the one was also bound to hurl the other hope- 
lessly into the abyss. 

At that time I felt infinitely sorry because of this. In 
these things I could only see the most ingenious trick of the 
Jew to divert general attention from himself and draw it to 
others. While now the Bavarian and the Prussian quar- 
reled, the Jew pulled away their means of existence from 
under the very nose of both ; while abusing the Prussian, the 
Jew organized the revolution and smashed Prussia as well 
as Bavaria at the same time. 

I could not stand this cursed feud between the German 
tribes, and I was glad to return to the front for which I 
registered immediately after my arrival at Munich. 



During the War commerce in produce was regulated by the 
government, through the so-called Kriegsgesellschaften. Officials 
regulated prices, distributed ration cards, and supervised the 
stocks of materials needed for the conduct of the War. During 
1914 and 1915, Walther Rathenau was director of the war ma- 
terials section of this organization. He was a Jewish industrial- 
ist and author of treatises on social problems, who later on 
became Foreign Minister in the Wirth Cabinet and whose mur- 
der by a band of Rightist assassins in 1922 almost precipitated 
another civil war. Doubtless the major reason for the hatred 
which nationalists of the kind to whom Hitler appealed felt for 
Rathenau was nothing more serious than a remark once ated 
from his writings by General Ludendorff. The charge that 
Rathenau could have used his office to further Jewish financial 
interests is a fabrication. 



THE REVOLUTION 253 

At the beginning of March, 1917, I was again with my 
regiment. 



Towards the end of the year 1917 it seemed as though the 
depth of the army's despair had passed. After the Russian 
breakdown the entire army now breathed new hope and 
fresh courage. The conviction that the fight would yet end 
with a German victory began to take hold of the troops 
more and more. Now one could hear them sing again, and 
the croakers became fewer in number. Once more one be- 
lieved in the fatherland's future. 

Especially the Italian breakdown of the fall of 1917 had 
exercised the most wonderful influence; for one saw in this 
victory the proof of the possibility that one would be able 
to break through the front at a place distant from the Rus- 
sian battlefield. Now again a marvelous faith filled the 
hearts of the millions and made them look forward to the 
spring of 1918 with revived confidence. The enemy, how- 
ever, was visibly depressed. In this winter he remained a 
little more quiet than at other times. The calm before the 
storm had set in. 

While now the front undertook the ultimate preparations 
for the final termination of the eternal struggle, while end- 
less transports of men and material rolled towards the 
Western Front and the troops were given their final train- 
ing for the great attack, the worst piece of villainy of the 
entire War, up to that time, took place in Germany. 

Germany was not to be victorious; thus in the last hour, 
when victory already threatened to fasten itself to the Ger- 
man flags, one had seized means which seemed suitable to 
nip in the bud at one blow the German attack of that 
spring and to make victory impossible. 

The munitions strike was organized. 

!f it succeeded, then the German front was bound to 



S54 MEIN KAMPF 

break down, and the wish of the Vorwaerts, that this victory 
was not to entwine itself with the German flags, would be 
fulfilled. With the shortage of munitions the front must 
necessarily be pierced in the course of a few weeks, the 
attack was thus prevented, the Entente was saved, but 
international capital was made Germany's master; for this 
was the inner aim of the Marxist betrayal of the people. 

The smashing of the national economy in favor of the 
establishment of the rule of international capital; some- 
thing in which these gentlemen now succeeded, thanks to 
the stupidity and the credulity of the one and the bottom- 
less cowardice of the other. &lt; 

However, the munitions strike had not the ultimately 
desired success as far as starving the front of weapons was 
concerned; it broke down too early to allow the shortage 
of munitions as such to sentence the army to doom, such 
as the plan presented itself. But how much more terrible 
was the moral damage which now had been done! 

First, for what, now, did the army continue to fight, if 
home itself no longer wanted victory? For whom the 

The Munitions Strike was declared in Berlin and some other 
cities during February, 1918. It was an effort to secure amelio- 
rations, particularly of the food ration; but it was also used by 
some of its sponsors as an act of protest against the continuance 
of the War. Leaders of the Socialist Party had entered the 
strike committee specifically in order to see to it that the move- 
ment did not sponsor sabotage. General Ludendorff placed 
Berlin under martial law, mass arrests were made, and large 
numbers of workers were sent to the front. This broke the 
strike before any military damage was done, but the psycho- 
logical effect on the workers was bad. They felt that their just 
demands had been answered with nothing but brutal repression. 
For their part the generals felt that German morale had been 
seriously undermined. (Cf . Die 14 Jahre, by Friedrich Stamp- 
fer.) 



THE REVOLUTION 255 

enormous sacrifices and deprivations? The soldier was to 
fight for victory and at home they were striking against it! 

But what was, secondly, the effect on the enemy? 

In the winter of 1917-18 dark douds rose for the first 
time over the horizon of the Allied world. For almost four 
years now one had attacked the German giant and could 
not bring him to fall; but in addition, it was only the arm 
holding the shield which was free to defend himself, while 
he had to raise the sword for striking now in the East, 
now in the South. Now, at last, the giant was free in the 
back. Streams of blood had flown till he succeeded in 
finally striking down one of the enemies. Now in the West 
the sword was to help the shield, and had the enemy not 
succeeded so far in breaking the defense, now he was to be 
hit by attack. 

Vorwaerts, the Berlin Social Democratic daily, had demanded 
a peace of understanding rather than a peace of victory. But 
the sentence here quoted from an editorial of October 20, 1918, 
is taken out of its context, as will be evident when the passage 
as a whole is cited: 'We stand against overwhelming odds. We 
will not win this war. We will not fight a moment longer than 
we must fight, and we are fighting not for victory but for 
peace in which there will not be present the germ of another 
war. Germany shall that is our firm decision as Socialists 
furl its battle flags forever without having brought them home 
in victory the last time. That is a heavy moral burden for 
every people, and those who wish to make that burden heavier 
than it can be borne take a great measure of responsibility upon 
themselves. No peace can make us unable to defend ourselves. 
Even the victor can obtain security only from a peace that dis- 
arms all and makes friends of enemies. But a peace is a danger 
for him too, if it be a peace which sends a people home to read 
in the bloody history of the past that the vanquished of today 
are the victors of tomorrow.' It is, of course, perfectly obvious 
that this editorial written after the armistice parleys had be- 
gun was only a plea for a just treaty of peace. 



256 MEIN KAMPF 

fOne feared him and one was worried about the victory. 

In London and Paris one conference chased the other, 
but on the front a sleepy silence prevailed. The gentlemen 
had suddenly lost their impudence. Even the hostile propa- 
ganda had hard work now; it was no longer so easy to 
prove the hopelessness of the German victory. 

But this was true also as regards the Allied troops on 
the fronts themselves. Now also an uncanny realization 
began to dawn gradually upon them. Their inner attitude 
towards the German soldier had changed now. Up till now 
he might be looked upon as a fool who was nevertheless 
destined to doom; now, however, they were confronted by 
the conqueror of the Russian ally. The limitations of the 
German attacks in the East, born of necessity, now seemed 
ingenious tactics. For three years now these Germans had 
stormed Russia, at the beginning without even the slight- 
est seeming success. One almost laughed at this senseless 
enterprise; because, by the overwhelming number of his 
men, the Russian giant was finally sure to remain the 
victor, Germany, however, would collapse after having 
bled herself out. Reality seemed to confirm this hope. 

Since September, 1914, when for the first time the end- 
less masses of Russian prisoners from the Tannenberg 
battle began to roll towards Germany on roads and rail- 
ways, this stream hardly ever came to an end; but for 
every beaten and destroyed army, a new one arose. In- 
exhaustibly the gigantic realm continued to give the Czar 
new soldiers and the war new victims. How long would 
Germany be able to hold her own in this race? Was not 
the day to arrive when, after the last German victory, still 
not the last Russian armies would march up for the very 
last battle? And what then? In all human probability, a 
Russian victory could well be postponed, but it was bound 
to come. 

Now all these hopes were at an end; the ally who had 



THE REVOLUTION 257 

laid down the greatest sacrifice in blood on the altar of 
common interests was at the end of his strength and was 
lying prostrate on the ground before the inexorable aggres- 
sor. Fear and horror crept into the hearts of the soldiers 
who hitherto had trusted blindly. One feared the coming 
spring. For, if so far one had not succeeded in breaking 
the German even though he was able to present himself 
only in part on the Western Front, how could one still 
count on a victory now that the entire power of this un- 
canny State of heroes seemed to concentrate itself for an 
attack of its own? 

The shadows of the South Tyrolean mountains cast 
gloom on the imagination : as far as into the fogs of Flanders 
the beaten armies of Cadorna conjured up dreary faces, 
and the confidence in the victory gave way before the fear 
of the coming defeat. 

There, when out of the cool nights one thought one 
already heard the monotonous rolling of advancing storm 
units of the German army, and when one started with 
oppressing fear at the coming judgment, suddenly a fierce 
red light flashed up in Germany and threw its rays as far 
as into the remotest shell hole of the enemy's front ;&lt; 
at the moment when the German divisions received their last 
instructions for the great attack, the general strike broke 
out in Germany. 

At first the world was speechless. But then the hostile 
propaganda threw itself with sighs of relief upon this aid 
in the eleventh hour. Now at one blow the means was 
found with which one was able to raise the sinking confi- 
dence of the Allied soldiers, to make the probability of 
victory appear realizable again, and to turn the gloomy 

This is part of the famous 'stab in the back* theory of why 
Germany lost the War. A statement concerning this theory is 
appended to this chapter. 



S58 MEIN KAMPF 

fear of the coming events into determined confidence. Now 
the conviction that the decision about the end of this war 
would not be due to the daring of the German storm, but 
to their endurance in warding it off, could be given to the 
regiments, expecting the German attack, on their way to 
the greatest battle of all times. One could let the Germans 
win as many victories as they might want to; Revolution 
awaited its entry into their country and not the victorious 
army. 

Now British, French, and American papers began to 
plant again this belief into the hearts of their readers, 
while an infinitely skillful propaganda whipped up the 
troops on the front. 

'Germany on the eve of Revolution. Victory of the 
Allies inevitable/ This was the best medicine in order to 
set the wavering poilu or Tommy on his feet once more. 
Now rifles and machine guns could be made to fire once 
more, and a rushing away in panicky flight was replaced 
by hopeful resistance. 

This was the result of the munitions strike. It strength- 
ened the hostile nation's confidence in victory and elimi- 
nated the paralyzing despair of the Allied front. But in 
the time that followed, thousands of German soldiers had 
to pay for this with their blood. The originators of the 
villainous act were the aspirants to the highest State posi- 
tions of revolutionary Germany. 

On the German side one was at first certainly able appar- 
ently to overcome the most visible reaction to this act, 
but on the side of the enemy the consequences soon became 
apparent. The resistance had lost the aimlessness of any 
army that considered everything as lost, and in its stead 
appeared the exasperation of a fight for victory. 

For in all human probability, victory was now bound to 
come if the Western Front resisted the German attack 
for only a few months. In the parliaments of the Entente, 



THE REVOLUTION 259 

however, one recognized the possibilities of the future, and 
one granted unheard-of funds for the continuation of the 
propaganda for Germany's destruction. 



I had the good fortune to be able to join in the first 
two attacks and in the last one. 

These have become the most enormous impressions of my 
life; enormous for the reason that now for the last time, 
as in 1914, the fight lost its character of defense and assumed 
that of attack. A breath of relief passed along the trenches 
and posts of the German army, when finally, after more 
than three years of perseverance in the hostile inferno, 
the day of revenge approached. Once more the victorious 
battalions jubilated, and the last wreaths of immortal 



On March 21, 1918, the Germans launched an attack on the 
British Fifth Army along the Picardy front. The onslaught waa 
heaviest at the point where the English and French forces 
joined, and for some days it seemed as if the Fifth Army would 
be destroyed. But French reinforcements arrived in time to 
stem the tide. In April the Germans struck another blow 
farther to the north, and in the battle of Armentiftres imperiled 
Calais and other Channel ports. British losses were heavy, but 
Ludendorff failed to reach his objective. Thereupon, during 
the months of May and June, three attacks were made in the 
hope of encircling Paris. The Germans succeeded in crossing 
the Marne at Chateau-Thierry, but the Rheims salient held and 
therewith the German thrust had failed. On July 18, Marshal 
Foch began the series of successful counter-attacks that ended 
the War. 

There can be no doubt that Ludendorff 's offensives consti- 
tute one of the most brilliant and most futile military opera- 
tions in history. A magnificent German army, sure that it 
could end the conflict and cheered by the elimination of Russia, 
struck with a vigor that will forever honor its history. But the 



260 MEIN KAMPF 

laurel hung themselves on the flags around which victory 
waved. Once more the songs of the fatherland roared up 
to the sky along the endless marching columns and for 
the last time the Lord's grace smiled down on his ungrate- 
ful children. 

* 

In the height of the summer of 1918 oppressive sultriness 
hovered over the front. At home one quarreled. What 
about? Many stories were told in the various units of the 
field army. Now the War was hopeless, and only fools were 
still able to believe in victory. The people no longer had 
an interest in holding out any further, but only Capital 
and the monarchy this news came from home and was 
also discussed on the front. 

At first it reacted only very moderately to this. What 
had we to do with universal suffrage? Was it perhaps for 
this that we had fought for four years? It was a mean act 
of banditry to steal in this way the aim of the War from 
the heroes dead in their graves. Not with the call, ' Long 
live universal suffrage and the secret ballot,' had the young 
regiments once marched towards death in Flanders, but 
with the cry, 'Deutschland uber dttes inder Welt.' A small 
but not quite unimportant difference. But those who called 
for the right to vote had for the greater part not been 
there where now they wanted to fight for this. The front 
did not know the whole pack of political parties. One saw 
only a fraction of the 'parliamentarian' gentlemen there 

wisdom of LudendorfFs strategy in these battles von Hin- 
denburg was little more than a moral force has been doubted 
by the best German students of military science. He had 
staked the future of Germany on a desperate gamble, using all 
available man-power and destroying every hope of reaching a 
peace by negotiation. 



THE REVOLUTION 261 

where decent Germans stayed at that time, provided their 
limbs were only straight. 

The front in its old makeup was therefore only little 
susceptible to these new war aims of the Messrs. Ebert, 
Scheidemann, Earth, Liebknecht, etc. Also, one did not 
at all understand why these shirkers should now suddenly 
have the right to assume control of the State by going 
over the heads of the army. 

My personal attitude towards this was fixed from the 
beginning: I whole-heartedly hated the entire Jot of these 
wretched party rascals who betrayed the people. Long 
since I had clearly seen the fact that this gang were really 
not concerned with the welfare of the nation, but rather 
with filling their own empty pockets. But that even now 
they were ready to sacrifice the entire people to this pur- 
Hitler, as Heiden points out in a brilliant passage, is here 
describing what may have been the experience which shaped 
his own future. He did not question the right fulness of the kind 
of leadership then directing the destinies of Germany. The 
hard-headed tenacity with which Ludendorff clung to a war of 
conquest, the declaration of U-boat warfare in spite of the 
United States, the harshness of the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, 
the march through Belgium, the sacrifice of all moral prestige 
in the world all these things and more he was wholly willing 
to accept because they meant the extension of German power. 
But he saw that this military government and the caste which 
had supported it had failed to catch the ear of the people. Even 
the instruments of propaganda which the nationalists devised 

among them the Vatcrlandspartei (Fatherland Party) and 
its orators who accused every moderate German of high treason 

failed abysmally to do the necessary work. 

Personal contact with other soldiers had brought Hitler as 
little success as had his relations with Viennese workingmen. 
The rest avoided him, looked upon his formalistic fidelity to 
military routine as 'bootlicking;/ and laughed at his patriotic 



262 MEIN KAMPF 

pose, and, if necessary, to let Germany go to the dogs, 
this, in my eyes, made them ripe for the rope. To consider 
their wishes would mean to sacrifice the interests of the 
working classes in favor of a number of sluggards; but one 
could fulfill them only if one was ready to give up Germany. 

These were still the thoughts of by far the majority of 
the fighting army. Only the reinforcements coming from 
home now rapidly became worse and worse, so that their 
arrival did not mean a strengthening, but rather a weaken- 
ing, of the fighting forces. The young reinforcements 
especially were for the greater part worthless. Often one 
could believe only with difficulty that these were supposed 
to be the sons of the same nation which once had sent its 
youth into the battle of Ypres. 

During August and September the symptoms of decay 
increased rapidly, although the effects of the enemy at- 
tacks could not be compared with the horrors of our 
defensive battles of some time ago. Compared with them, 



speeches. The reason was, he decided, that these men had been 
misled by 'democratic* propaganda. They really believed that 
the War was being fought for the sake of the nobles and the 
rich. To them electoral reform did mean something, and their 
labor organizations were matters of great import to them. No- 
body had made them realize that alj^uch things were of minor 
consequence compared with the aggrandizement of Germany. 
For that aggrandizement would mean the nation's enrichment 
and therewith prosperity and prestige. 

In Hitler's mind there ripened the decision to supply the 
missing contact between Pan-Germanism and democracy. He 
would talk to the people in their own language, but he would 
persuade them to adopt the Pan-German outlook. Now his ad- 
miration for Lueger, and his respect for Allied statesmen like 
Wilson and Lloyd George, bred in him the conviction that he 
would give Germany the benefit of a similar methodology. 



THE REVOLUTION 263 

the Somme and Flanders battles were ghastly memories 
of the past. 

At the end of September my division for the third time 
came to those positions we once, as young volunteer regi- 
ments, had attacked. 

What a memory! 

t There, in October and November, 1914, we had received 
our baptism of fire. With the love for the fatherland in 
our hearts and with songs on our lips, our young regiment 
had marched into battle as to a dance. The most valuable 
blood gave itself up joyfully in the belief that it would 
guard the fatherland's independence and freedom. 

In July, 1917, we stepped for the second time on the 
soil that was sacred to us. For under it there slumbered 
the best comrades, almost children still, who once with 
beaming eyes had run into the arms of death for the only 
and dear fatherland ! 

Now we old ones, who once had marched out with the 
regiment, stood in reverential emotion on the soil of the 
oath for 'loyalty and obedience unto death/ 

This soil which our regiment had conquered by storm 
three years before, it had now to guard in a difficult de- 
fensive battle. 

With continuous drum fire for three weeks, the British 
prepared the great attack of Flanders. There the spirits of 
the dead seemed to come to life again ; the regiment clutched 
the dirty mud and fastened its grip into the individual 
holes and craters and did not give way and did not waver, 
and thus, as once before in this place, it became smaller 
and thinner in number, till finally on July 31, 1917, the 
English attack broke out. 

In the first days of August we were relieved. 

The regiment had been reduced to a few companies; 
these now made their way back, stumbling and encrusted 
with mud, more like ghosts than human beings. But apart 



264 MEIN KAMPF 

from a few hundred meters of shell holes, the English had 
only gained death. &lt;&lt; 

Now, in the fall of 1918, we stood for the third time on 
the soil of the storms of 1914. Our one-time resting place, 
Comines, had now become the battlefield. However, even 
though the battlefield was the same, the men had changed; 
now one also 'discussed polities' among the troops. The 
poison from home, as everywhere else, began to show its 
effect here also. The younger reinforcements, however, 
failed completely, they came from home. 

In the night from October 13 to October 14 the English 
began to throw gas on the southern front of Ypres; yellow- 
cross gas was being used, the effects of which were unknown 
to us so far as personal experience was concerned. I was 
to get to know it personally in this very night. On the 
eve of October 13, on a hill south of Wervick, we had come 
under a drum fire of gas shells, lasting several hours, which 
continued more or less violently throughout the entire 
night. Towards midnight a part of us passed out, some of 
our comrades forever. Towards morning I, too, was seized 
with pains which grew worse with every quarter hour, and 
at seven o'clock in the morning I stumbled and tottered 
rearwards with burning eyes, but taking with me my last 
report in the War. 

Already a few hours later the eyes had turned into 
burning coals; it had become dark around me. 

Thus I was brought into the hospital at Pasevalk in 
Pomerania and there I was to experience the greatest 
villainy of the century. 



Something uncertain and disgusting had hovered in the 
air for a long time. People told each other that during the 
coming weeks it would 'go off, 9 but I was not able to 
imagine what was to be understood by this. First of all 



THE REVOLUTION 265 

I thought of a strike, similar to that of spring. Unfavorable 
rumors continued to come from the navy which was said 
to be in ferment. But also this appeared to me more a 
product of the imagination of various fellows than some* 
thing that concerned the masses. In the hospital, however, 
everybody hoped that the end of the War might come 
soon, but nobody counted on an 'immediately.' However, 
I was not able to read newspapers. 

During November the general tension increased. 

There one day suddenly and without warning the disaster 
came upon us. Sailors arrived on trucks and called out for 
the Revolution; a few Jew boys, however, were the 'leaders' 
in the fight that now started also here, the fight for 'free- 
dom/ 'beauty/ and 'dignity' of our people's existence. 
None of them had been at the front. By way of a so-called 
'gonorrhoea-hospital 1 these three Orientals had been sent 
home from the base behind the front. Now they pulled up 
the red rag here. 

I had been somewhat better lately. The boring pain in 
the sockets of my eyes had diminished; gradually I suc- 
ceeded in learning to distinguish my surroundings in rough 
outlines; I could hope to regain my eyesight at least enough 
that later I would be able to take up some profession ; how- 
ever, I could no longer hope that I would ever again be 
able to draw; nevertheless I was on the way to improve- 
ment when the iponstrous event happened. 

My first hope was still that the high treason was nothing 
but a more or less local affair. I also tried to convince 
some of my comrades to that effect. Especially my Bava- 
rian comrades in the hospital were more than receptive to 
this. The mood was anything but ' revolutionary.' Further, 
I could not imagine that the lunacy would break out in 
Munich also. The loyalty towards the honorable House of 
Wittelsbach seemed to me to be stronger than the will of 
a few Jews. Thus I could but believe that this was only a 



266 MEIN KAMPF 

putsch on the part of the navy which would be suppressed 
in the following days. 

The following days came, and with them the most ter- 
rible certainty of my life. The rumors became more and 
more depressing. What I had taken to be a local affair 
was now to be a general revolution. To this was added the 
shameful news from the front. One intended to capitulate. 
Why was something of that kind really possible? 

On November 10 the pastor came into the hospital for a 
short address; now we knew everything. 

In utmost excitement, I, too, was present during the 
short speech: The dignified old gentleman seemed to 
tremble very much when he told us that now the House of 
Hohenzollern was no longer allowed to wear the German 
imperial crown, that the country had now become a 're- 
public/ and that now one should ask the Almighty not to 
deny His blessings upon this change and not to abandon 
our people in the time to come. He certainly could not 
help it, but in a few words he had to remember the Royal 
House, he wanted to praise its merits in Pomerania, in 
Prussia, even in the entire country and there he began 
to weep silently; but in the small hall deepest depression 
seized all hearts, and I believe that not one eye was able 
to hold back the tears. But then as the old gentleman tried 
to continue and began to tell us that now we had to end 
the long war, that even our fatherland would now be sub- 
mitted to severe oppressions in the future, that now the 
War was lost and that we had to surrender to the mercy of 
the victors . . , that the armistice should be accepted with 
confidence in the generosity of our previous enemies . . . 
there I could stand it no more. It was impossible for me 
to stay any longer. While everything began to go black 
again before my eyes, stumbling, I groped my way back 
to the dormitory, threw myself on my cot and buried my 
burning head in the covers and pillows. 



THb REVOLUTION 267 

I had not wept since the day I had stood at the grave 
of my mother. Whenever during my youth Fate handled 
me roughly, my stubbornness grew; when thereafter, dur- 
ing the long years of the War, Death called more than 
one of my dear comrades or friends from our ranks, to me 
it would have seemed almost a sin to complain. They died 
for Germany! And even when, during the last days of the 
terrible struggle, the creeping gas attacked me too and 
began to eat into my eyes, and when, under the impact 
of the shock of fear of becoming blind forever, I was about 
to despair for a moment, the voice of Conscience thundered 
at me: Miserable wretch, you want to cry while thousands 
are a hundred times worse off than you; then I bore my 
fate apathetically and silently. But now I could not help 
it any longer, only now I saw how completely all personal 
grief disappears in the face of the fatherland's disaster. 

Now all had been in vain. In vain all the sacrifices and 
deprivations, in vain the hunger and thirst of endless 
months, in vain the hours during which, gripped by the 
fear of death, we nevertheless did our duty, and in vain 
the death of two millions who died thereby. Would not 
the graves of all the hundreds of thousands open up, the 
graves of those who once had marched out with faith in 
the fatherland, never to return? Would they not open up 
and send the silent heroes, covered with mud and blood, 
home as spirits of revenge, to the country that had so 
mockingly cheated them of the highest sacrifice which in 
this world man is able to bring to his people? Was it for 
this that they had died, the soldiers of August and Sep- 
tember, 1914, was it for this that the regiments of volun- 
teers followed the old comrades in the fall of the same 
year? Was it for this that boys of seventeen sank into 
Flanders Fields? Was that the meaning of the sacrifice 
which the German mother brought to the fatherland when 
in those days, with an aching heart, she let her most b*- 



268 MEIN KAMPF 

loved boys go away, never to aee them again? Was it all 
for this that now a handful of miserable criminals was 
allowed to lay hands on the fatherland? 

Was it for this that the German soldier had persevered 
in burning sun and in snowstorms, suffering hunger, thirst, 
and cold, tired by sleepless nights and endless marches? 
Was it for this that he had lain in the hell of drum fire 
and in the fever of gas attacks, without receding, always 
his sole duty in mind, to guard the fatherland against the 
distress from the enemy? 

Truly, these heroes too deserve a memorial : 

'Wanderer, ye who come to Germany, announce to the 
homeland that we are lying here, loyal to the fatherland 
and faithful to duty/ 

And the homeland? 

Was it only our own sacrifice which we had to throw into 
the balance? Was the Germany of the past worthless? 
Was there not also an obligation towards our own history? 
Were we still worthy of applying the fame of the past to us 
also? How was this deed to be submitted to the future for 
justification? 

Wretched and miserable criminals! 

The more I tried to clarify this terrible event in that 
hour, the stronger burned the shame of indignation and 
dishonor on my forehead. What was now all the pain of 
my eyes as compared with this misery? 

What now followed were terrible days and even worse 
nights. Now I knew that everything was lost. Only fools 
or liars and criminals were able to hope for the mercy 
of the enemy. In those nights my hatred arose, the hatred 
against the originators of this deed. 

In days that followed, I became aware of my own destiny. 
Now I had to laugh at the thought of my own future, which 
until recently had worried me so much. Was it not ridicu- 
lous to wish to build houses on such ground? Finally it 



THE REVOLUTION 269 

also became clear to me that what happened was only 
what I had feared so long, and which my feelings had not 
been able to believe. 

Kaiser Wilhelm II was the first German Emperor who 
extended his hand to the leaders of Marxism without guess- 
ing that scoundrels are without honor. While they were 
still holding the imperial hand in their own, the other was 
feeling for the dagger. 

With the Jews there is no bargaining, but only the 
hard either or. 

I, however, resolved now to become a politician. 

It is important to note that Hitler's hatred was not directed 
primarily at the Treaty of Versailles. That was a mere minor 
detail a peace similar to what Germany would have dic- 
tated had it been victorious. National life is the expression of 
the law of the survival of the fittest; only fools like Kurt Eisner 
would have it otherwise. The horrible, the detestable, thing 
was that Germany had lost the War. Lost it, so ran the ex- 
planation, because of sabotage from within. Therewith the 
notion that Germany had been stabbed in the back became of 
primary political importance. 

Some time after the War, General Sir Neill Malcolm was 
dining with Ludendorff in Berlin, listening to Ludendorff main- 
tain that he had failed to win the War because of lack of sup- 
port from the government. ' Do you mean you were stabbed in 
the back?' the Englishman asked. 'Yes,' was the eager reply, 
'stabbed in the back! 1 This version of the affair was then 
offered by von Hindenburg when he appeared before the Com- 
mittee of Enquiry which the Reichstag had appointed to find 
out why the War was lost. Speaking on November 18, 1919, 
the Marshal declared that the Revolution had only been the 
Mast straw* in a systematic process of undermining the army 
and that it had been on the testimony of British generals 
'stabbed in the back.' (Cf. The Wooden Titan, by John W. 
Wheeler-Bennett.) 

The appointment of this committee had been necessitated bv 



870 MEIN KAMPF 

debates which had deeply stirred the German Constitutional 
Assembly at Weimar. Nationalists, led by Karl Helfferich 
(war-time Minister of Finance), had denounced Matthias 
Erzberger, who signed the armistice, as a traitor to his country. 
Erzberger replied in bitter speeches which for the first time tore 
the mask from the methods employed by the High Command 
during the War. He accused Ludendorff of having undermined 
every effort to reach a peace by compromise, and in particulai 
of having looked upon the entry of the United States into the 
conflict as a mere bagatelle. Had not Helfferich said that Wil- 
son was just in time to pay the bills Germany had run up for 
military supplies? The effect of Erzberger's speeches was tre- 
mendous. Delegates screamed and wept aloud as the fiery or- 
ator attacked Pan-Germanism as the cause of national dis- 
aster. Thereafter the issue became one of central importance in 
the nation's political life. 

Immediately a campaign to ruin Erzberger was started by 
Helfferich, and as a result he was compelled to retire from 
public life. Neither the Centrists nor the Social Democrats 
realized at the time how great a blow the Republican cause had 
suffered ; and even when Erzberger was assassinated by a group 
of fanatics, the import of what had happened was clear only to 
a few. Soon the charge that every member of the Republican 
government was a 'November criminal* was being made in a 
great variety of nationalist journals or pamphlets; and a wave 
of political murders swept over the country. The Commission 
of Enquiry heard a great deal of testimony, which is enshrined 
in many volumes, but reached few conclusions. The prestige 
of the generals was still so great that few were in a position to 
challenge their authority. Perhaps the major result was that a 
vigorous critique of General Ludendorff s military policy in 
1918 was read into the record, Professor Hans Delbrueck con- 
tending that every canon of the soldier's science had been 
violated. 

It was proved that when the offensives of that year were 
begun, the army had been in excellent condition, and that the 
supply of matirid de guerre was more than adequate. But on 
August 8 it had suffered a defeat described by Ludendorff as 



THE REVOLUTION 271 

the 'black day in German history. 9 A few days later, the 
Kaiser discussed the situation with his generals and concluded : 
1 1 see, we must add up accounts. We have arrived at the limit 
of our energies. The War must be stopped.' But on August 13 
Ludendorff insisted to the Chancellor, Count von Hertling, 
that Germany could accept no peace that did not conserve 
German rights in Belgium and Poland ; and on the next day, at 
a Crown Council in Spa, he stated that the proper moment to 
sue for peace would have arrived as soon as he had won another 
victory on the western front. By the middle of September, 
however, the Austrians were suing for peace and the Mace- 
donian front had collapsed. On the 2ist of the same month, 
Ludendorff requested the German government to sound out 
the United States concerning peace, and followed this seven 
days later with a statement to the effect that the German situ- 
ation was so desperate that no further delay was possible. The 
effect of this precipitate action was that the government, com- 
pletely taken by surprise, was half out of its wits; and a new 
chancellor, Prince Max of Baden, was appointed. This change 
was made in accordance with the belief of the Foreign Office 
that only a 'democratic* government could successfully ap- 
proach President Wilson. Unfortunately the Social Democrats 
now made a serious blunder. They refused to enter a govern- 
ment in which the Conservative Party was represented a 
stipulation which was later, of course, to give that party a 
chance to throw all blame on the other groups. 

While the new chancellor was endeavoring to sound out the 
Allies, Ludendorff again intervened to say that at any moment 
the enemy might break through and that therefore a request 
for an armistice must be despatched immediately. The chan- 
cellor insisted that time was needed to negotiate acceptable 
terms, again Ludendorff countered, and thereupon the first 
armistice note was despatched to Wilson on October 3. Hin- 
denburg's letter describing the military situation, dated Sep- 
tember 29, attributed the crisis to the breakdown of the Mace- 
donian front and the inability to get troop replacements. When 
Walter Rathenau suggested, in the Vossische Zeitung, a levie en 
masse as the only way out, Ludendorff replied that this would 
do more harm than good. 



272 MEIN KAMPF 

But after an exchange of notes between the State Depart- 
ment of the United States and the German government had 
shown that the only terms Wilson was willing to grant were 
harsh, Ludendorff changed his mind and declared that a levie 
m masse might be resorted to, after all. But the government 
now felt that the German people would not understand such a 
change of face, that a revolution was imminent, and that at- 
tempted resistance would only make matters worse. Luden- 
dorff handed in his resignation. He was succeeded by General 
Wilhelm Gr6ner, who saw at once that further resistance was 
out of the question. On November 8, the Kaiser was advised to 
abdicate. 

It is, therefore, apparent that Ludendorff was sure the War 
had been lost before any revolutionary movement had broken 
out in Germany. This view is confirmed by all who, on the 
Allied side, knew the situation that existed between Septem- 
ber 29 and November 8. As a matter of fact, the American 
commanders were so certain that a triumphal march on to 
Berlin would cost relatively little that some of them accepted 
the armistice with bad grace. Marshal Foch has often been 
severely criticized (e.g., by General Mordacq) for the 'human- 
itarianism' which induced him to end the struggle before the 
German border was reached. German deficiencies in supplies, 
man-power, and armament were so marked that, despite the 
stubbornness with which picked troops defended themselves, 
any other outcome than the utter rout of the German army was 
unthinkable. In addition the collapse of Austria and the break- 
down of Bulgaria opened the way for an advance into southern 
Germany. 

The major reasons why Germany lost the War are seen as 
inherent in the nature of the political action she sponsored. 
On this virtually all non-German students are agreed. The 
only real military issues are these : whether a different handling 
of the battle of the Marne might not have led to the speedy 
defeat of France, and whether Ludendorff could have won the 
Flanders battles of 1918 if he had taken additional troops out 
of Russia. Neither query is answerable. But these facts con- 
cerning the political situation are established: the march 



THE REVOLUTION 273 

through Belgium forced Britain to enter the War; the insistence 
upon unrestricted U-boat warfare in 1917 induced the United 
States to enter the conflict; and the harsh terms of the Treaty 
of Brest-Litovsk may have dissuaded (cf. The Forgotten Peacv, 
by John W. Wheeler-Bennett) President Wilson from trying to 
reach a peace with Germany on the basis of the 'Fourteen 
Points.* One may add a number of minor political misadven- 
tures: the fantastically mismanaged attempt to obtain Polish 
support by setting up a vassal kingdom of Poland; the murder 
of Edith Cavell ; the bombing of London ; the contemptuous at- 
titude adopted towards the Austrians; and the strange maneu- 
vers of Colonel von Papen in Washington. 

Those who deny the validity of these contentions and 
they include all Germans who cherish some fondness for the 
Pan-German program maintain that if so magnificent an 
army failed under such leadership to win the War, the reason 
can only lie within Germany itself. In essence, the credibility 
of such a view must be sought in the realm of idea rather than 
in that of fact. The Prussian war machine was created to be 
the ideally perfect instrument of national action. If everything 
that could render it in practice what it was in theory had been 
done, it could not have been defeated. For what is absolutely 
right in conception must also be absolutely right in practice. The 
realm of the real is only the logical counterpart of the realm 
of the ideal. This conception of the army of 1914 is at the back 
of many German minds; and a similar attitude of mind is at 
the bottom of the doubts entertained by many about the army 
of 1938. They would not argue that France has a poorer or 
better army than Germany's, but only that the German army 
has defects. 

Now what was wrong with the German instrument during 
the War? The answer is that, as a result of Marxist agitation, 
germs of sabotage were introduced into the German system 
which developed into veritable cancers; and that, as a conse- 
quence of the 'pacifism' which formed part of the normal 
bourgeois outlook, large sections of the public were victims of 
the dishonest alien propaganda dispensed by President Wilson 
ahd others. Evidence to support these contentions was ad- 



874 MEIN KAMPF 

vanced on three important occasions during the history of the 
Weimar Republic; the controversy between Erzberger and 
Helfferich during 1919; the Magdeburg Trial of December, 
1924, when President Friederich Ebert defended himself against 
a reactionary journalist's assertions that he had committed 
high treason by helping to organize the Munitions Strike of 
1918; and the Munich 'Stab in the Back' Trial, conducted 
during October and November, 1925, at which leading Social 
Democrats were the plaintiffs. 

It is impossible to do more here than summarize very briefly 
the facts and surmisals then advanced. The charge against 
Erzberger was that by sponsoring the Peace Resolution of 1917, 
which disclaimed any desire by Germany to annex territory or 
to hold other peoples under economic tutelage, he had under- 
mined the belief of the German people in ultimate victory and 
therewith weakened their morale. President Ebert was ac- 
cused of having sought to end the War by depriving the army 
of needed munitions; and his enemies insisted that all along he 
and his fellow-Marxists had waited for the chance to spring at 
the throat of a fatherland left prostrate before the enemy. 
The Munich Trial was far more important because the whole 
question of Social Democratic attitudes during and immediately 
after the War was threshed out. Sensational testimony was 
offered by General Gr6ner and others. 

The Erzberger case may be dismissed; for though it was of 
great importance to the history of the Weimar Republic, it 
offers nothing to substantiate the 'stab in the back' theory. 
The Reichstag Resolution failed to affect the conduct of the 
War either at home or abroad, and nothing Erzberger did 
checked in the least either Ludendorff's dictatorial policy or the 
flan of the army. The second and third cases are more perti- 
nent. As a matter of fact, the Minority (Independent) So- 
cialists did refuse, as the War went on, to vote the necessary 
credits to continue the conflict; a few of them maintained rela- 
tions with dissatisfied sailors, who then provoked the mutiny 
of 1918 which halted the German navy's projected sensational 
last-minute attack on the British fleet; and a number were in- 
volved both in the Munitions Strike and in the revolutionary 



THE REVOLUTION 275 

activities which led to open revolt in November. Moreover, 
the extreme Spartacist movement, which during the War pub- 
lished subversive literature and which afterward led to the 
establishment of the Communist Party, was led by former 
Socialists among whom Karl Liebknecht and Rosa Luxemburg 
were the most important. 

It is therefore possible to say that opposition to the War did 
exist inside Germany, and that efforts were made to awaken in 
the masses a spirit of resistance to the Kaiser and the High 
Command. Liebknecht did obtain world-wide prominence for 
his pacifistic utterances, which no parliamentarian in any Al- 
lied country duplicated. Yet one notes immediately that the 
anti-war movement was utterly insignificant until late in 1918, 
when the half -starved population lost all hope of victory. The 
effects of the blockade were horrible and the physical health as 
well as the morale of Germany suffered greatly. When in 
history has a people been called upon to shoulder a heavier bur- 
den, and when has one responded to the summons with such 
astounding patience? 

Yet none of the agents of subversive activity helped to form 
the government of November, 1918. The men who undertook 
that difficult task knew exactly what they were doing. The 
Social Democrats had debated a long while before assenting to 
a suggestion that came from the High Command and the 
Foreign Office. Some of the ablest among them were certain 
that to accept responsibility under such circumstances would 
later on mean being charged with the defeat and its conse- 
quences. Ebert took up the Chancellor's duties on the basis of 
a secret understanding with the generals, as Groner explained 
at the Munich Trial. Neither he nor his fellows wanted the 
Revolution. The Republic was proclaimed, a little hastily, by 
Philip Scheidemann in order to forestall Liebknecht's declara- 
tion to the same effect. The Minority Socialists were, of course, 
far more pacifistic and revolutionary. Yet even the leading 
members of this group were stunned by the sudden collapse of 
the nation and were not prepared to deal with the situation 
thus created. 

The most serious blot on the national escutcheon was the 



276 MEIN KAMPF 

mutiny in Wilhelmshaven on October 30. This was preceded by 
scattered instances of insubordination to some of which politi- 
cal intent was ascribed. Yet the situation was peculiar. 
Peace negotiations were under way; the abdication of the Kai- 
ser had been demanded ; and still the men were ordered to get 
ready for a sudden sortie which was virtual suicide. Therefore 
they had a certain right to assume that their own commanders 
were guilty of insubordination, and could justify their conduct 
accordingly. At any rate the navy had done its duty for four 
years; and to attribute Germany's loss of the War to their 
sabotage of a romantic and desperate maneuver is to strain 
credulity to the breaking point. 



CHAPTER VIII 

BEGINNING OF MY 
POLITICAL ACTIVITY 



AT THE end of November, 1918, I came back to 
Munich. I went again to join the reserve battalion 
of my regiment which was now in the hands of 
'Soldiers' Councils.' The entire business disgusted me to 
such a degree that I decided at once to go away again if 
possible. Together with my faithful war comrade, Schmiedt 
Ernst, I now came to Traunstein and remained there till 
the camp was broken up. 

In March, 1919, we again returned to Munich. 

Hitler, with no home to which to return he had been out 
of touch with his family for years walked to Munich, and 
arrived there shortly after the murder of Kurt Eisner, who had 
headed the revolution that had driven the Wittelsbachs from 
their thrones and had then up to the time of his assassina- 
tion by Count Arco- Valley been Prime Minister of Bavaria. 
Eisner, a Jew and not a native Bavarian, was an idealist who 
had been jailed during the War for writing pacifist tracts. The 
account of his reign reads like a fairy tale. Refusing to curb 
free speech or to put through any rash socialization measures, 
he set about attempting to prove to the Allies that Germany's 
workers fully acknowledged the guilt of the former Imperial 
government in starting the War and were therefore entitled to 



278 MEIN KAMPF 

The situation was untenable and urged necessarily 
towards a further continuation of the Revolution. Eisner's 
death only hastened developments and led finally to the 
Soviet dictatorship, or, in other terms, to a temporary 
reign of the Jews as it had been originally intended by the 
originators of the whole revolution. 

In those days endless plans chased each other in my 
head. For days I pondered what could be done at all, but 
the end of all reflections was always the sober conclusion 

a just peace. In addition he proved himself a violent Bavarian 
particularist, and gave his government an artistic setting by 
staging festivals at which orchestral overtures preceded his 
addresses. 

The Eisner regime was succeeded by a Socialist government 
which in turn was driven out of Munich by a 'Soviet dictator- 
ship. 9 This did little except watch the various factions which 
comprised it fight one another. Just previously Sovietism had 
triumphed in Hungary; and not a few intellectuals were now of 
the opinion that the Russian idea was about to conquer the 
world. Several Moscow agents appeared in Munich, and two 
of them were Jewish. In addition a couple of unworldly Jew- 
ish poets, Ernst Toller and Gustav Landauer, joined the new 
movement. This extraordinary revolution, which the Munich 
citizenry welcomed as they would the plague, did irreparable 
damage to the cause of labor by murdering ten hostages, mem- 
bers of a Rightist secret society. In addition Jewish participa- 
tion in it opened the doors to anti-Semitic agitation. Angered 
and embittered citizens were now willing to ascribe all evils to 
the Hebrew race. Eisner's example had encouraged other 
dreamers to think that they, too, could renew the face of the 
earth. 

Government troops were sent to restore order in Munich. 
They were joined by a number of volunteer military organiza- 
tions, and on May 2, 1919, took the city after a stiff fight. 
Frightful vengeance was taken. Some estimates place the num- 
ber of those shot with or without court-martial at more than a 



BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITY 279 

that I, as one without name, did not possess even the least 
presupposition for any useful activity. I will speak latei 
on of the reasons for which even then I could not make up 
my mind to join one of the existing parties. 

In the course of the Councils' Revolution I acted for the 
first time in a manner which invoked the displeasure of 
the Central Council. On April 27, 1919, early in the morn- 
ing, I was supposed to be arrested; but in facing the rifle 
I presented, the three fellows lacked the necessary courage 
and marched away in the same manner in which they had 
come. 

A few days after the liberation of Munich, I was sum- 
moned to join a commission for the examination of the 
events of the Revolution in the Second Infantry Regiment. 

This was my first more or less purely political activity. 



thousand. Poor Landauer was among those slain. Therewith 
Bavaria became what it had never previously been the most 
reactionary part of Germany. Inside its borders, Rightist 
rebels against the Republic, putschists and patriotic assassins 
found refuge. 

No doubt the major cause of the whole sad affair was the mur- 
der of Eisner. He was on his way to the Bavarian Landtag, and 
would there have turned over the government to the Majority 
Socialists, when he was felled; and some of his followers, not 
knowing what forces were responsible, committed other mur- 
ders that led to desperate and fateful strife between the factions 
which alone could govern. To Count Arco- Valley, whom he 
imprisoned in 1933, Hitler owes a debt he can never repay. 



The earliest reports concerning Hitler's political activities arc 
interesting. He was housed in barracks with a number of ' Red ' 
soldiers. When the army took the city, these barracks were 
seized, Hitler was first called aside, and then every tenth man 
was shot. The inference is that he was already in the service 
of the army. 



880 MEIN KAMPF 

A few weeks later I was given orders to take part in a 
'course' which was being held for the members of the army. 
There the soldier was to receive certain foundations of 
civic education. For me the value of the whole performance 
lay in the fact that now I was given the possibility of be- 
coming acquainted with some comrades who were of the 
same conviction and with whom I would then be able to 
discuss thoroughly the situation of the moment. All of us 
were more or less firmly convinced that Germany could no 
longer be saved from the approaching collapse by the 
parties of the November crime, the Center Party and 
Social Democracy, but that even the so-called 'bourgeois 
national' formations would never be able to remedy this 
despite their best intentions. Here quite a series of assump- 
tions were lacking, without which such a task could not 
succeed. The time that followed proved our opinions of 
those days to be right. 

Thus in our small circle one discussed the formation of 
a new party. The basic ideas which we had in mind 
thereby were the same which were realized later on by the 
'German Workers' Party.' The name of the new move- 
ment to be founded was to offer, from the beginning, the 
possibility of approaching the great masses; for without 
these qualities the whole work seemed senseless and super- 
fluous. Therefore we arrived at the name 'Social-Revolu- 
tionary' Party; this for the reason that the social ideas of 
the new foundation indeed meant a revolution. 



He became one of the group of soldiers selected to receive in- 
struction in methods of 'political enlightenment.' Such courses 
were normal in many parts of Germany during the period of 
Reichswehr reorganization. Cf. Gen. L. R. G. Maercker, 
Vom Kaiserheer zur Reichswehr (From the Imperial Army to the 
Reich Army). Early biographers state that Hitler almost im- 
mediately attracted attention. 



BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITY 281 

But the deeper cause for this was found in the following: 

No matter how much I had occupied myself even previ- 
ously with economic problems, this had always remained 
more or less within the limits which resulted from consider- 
ing social questions in themselves. Only later this frame 
expanded in consequence of my examining the German 
policy of alliances. The latter was to a great extent the 
result of a wrong estimation of economics, as well as 
the confusion about the possible bases of a feeding of the 
German people in the future. But all these thoughts were 
still rooted in the opinion that capital in every case was 
only the result of labor and, therefore, like the latter, was 
subject to the correction of all those factors which are either 
able to stimulate or to hinder human activity. Therein 
was supposed to be found also the national importance of 
capital, as capital itself in turn was supposed to depend so 
entirely upon the greatness of the State's, that is, the 
nation's, liberty and power; that this relation alone was 
bound to lead to an advancement of the State and the 
nation on the part of capital out of the mere urge for self- 
preservation or increase. This dependency of capital upon 
the independent and free State forces it also in its turn to 
stand up for this freedom, power, strength, etc., of the 
nation. 

Therefore, the State's task towards capital was com- 
paratively simple and clear: it had only to take care that 
the latter remained the servant of the State and did not 
pretend to be the master of the nation. This attitude, 
therefore, could confine itself within two borderlines: preser- 
vation of a prosperous national and independent economy 
on the one hand, securing social rights of workers on the 
other. 

In previous times I was not yet able to recognize the 
difference between this capital as purely the ultimate result 
of creative labor as compared with a capital the existence 



282 MEIN KAMPF 

and nature of which rests exclusively on speculation. For 
this I lacked the first stimulation, for it had not come to me. 

This now was carried out thoroughly by one of the 
various gentlemen, lecturing in the course already men- 
tioned : Gottfried Feder. 

For the first time in my life I now heard a discussion, 
in principle, of the international exchange and loan capital. 

Immediately after I had listened to Feder's first lecture, 
the idea flashed through my mind that now at last I had 
found the way to one of the most essential principles for 
the foundation of a new party. 



In my eyes, Feder's merit was that he outlined, with 
ruthless brutality, the character of the stock exchange and 

Gottfried Feder, engineer born in Wtirzburg, was one of 
many persons moved by the disarray of post- War national 
economy to solve the monetary problem. In the United States 
he would doubtless have urged the coinage of silver at a ratio of 
32 to I. 'Breaking the slavery of interest is,' he declared, 'the 
steel axle round which everything turns.' The meaning is: 
instead of taking up loans when it needs money, the govern- 
ment should, when undertaking public works, issue treasury 
certificates of the same value as the value of the structures 
erected. Thus, for example, a gas plant would be worth, say, 
$1,000,000. This value the government could then transmute 
into certificates. Opponents pointed out that Feder erred in 
assuming that money in circulation was covered by real values 
inside the country. Feder's most elaborate exposition of the 
point, which he maintained was his most original contribution 
to Party doctrine, is contained in his Brechung der Zinsknecht- 
schaft. Goebbels' verdict on the book is interesting but un- 
translatable: 'Brcchcn muss dabei nur dcr, der diesen Unsinn 
lesen muss.' Other Nazis also attacked Feder, but the Party 
never officially repudiated him. After 1933, however, he was 



BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITY 283 

loan capital that was harmful to economy, and that he 
exposed the original and eternal presupposition of interest. 
His arguments were so correct in all fundamental questions 
that those who criticized them from the beginning denied 
less the theoretical correctness of the idea but rather the 
practical possibility of its execution. But what in the eyes 
of the others was a weakness of Feder's arguments was in 
my eyes their strength. 



fThe task of a program-maker is not to state the various 
degrees of a matter's realizability, but to demonstrate the 
matter as such ; that means, he has to care less for the way 
but more for the goal. Hereby an idea's correctness in 
principle is decisive and not the difficulty of its execution. 

relegated to a minor r&amp;le. When Hitler began to make impor- 
tant friends, his adviser in financial matters became Dr. Paul 
Bang, an intimate friend of Dr. Hugenberg's and one of the 
directors of the Alldcutschcr Verband. After 1933 Dr. Hjalmar 
Schacht was installed as the official wizard, to be replaced in 
1938 by Walther Funk. 

The best brief commentary on the significance of these mat- 
ters for National Socialist propaganda we have seen was writ- 
ten by Alfred Braunthal for Die Gcsellschaft, Vol. VII, nr. 12. 
(Decomer 1930). 'The National Socialist movement has had 
two peaks the first half of 1924, and the fall of 1930. At both 
times there existed a peculiar economic situation. The first 
half of 1924 was the time when the stabilization crisis was at 
its worst. Interest rates were fantastically high in the money 
market. During January the rate was between 90 and 100 per 
cent, sinking then in July to "only " 20 per cent. At the same 
time, however, the Reichsbank discount rate was only 10 per 
cent. Thereupon everything depended upon whether one had 
good banking connections and could, by using these, get to the 
Reichsbank and its cheap credits. The life and death of an 
enterprise was in the hands of the bank. 



284 MEIN KAMPF 

As soon as the program-maker tries to take into account the 
'useful reality* instead of absolute truth, his work will 
cease to be a pole star for inquiring mankind, becomes 
instead a prescription for everyday life. He who draws up 
the program of a movement has to fix its goal, the politician 
has to aim towards the fulfillment of the goal. Therefore, 
the one's thinking is governed by eternal truth, the other's 
activity more by practical reality of the moment. The 
greatness of the one is founded in the absolute and abstract 
correctness of his idea, that of the other in the right attitude 
towards given facts and their useful application, whereby 
the aim of the program-maker has to serve as his leading 
star. While a politician's plans and acts that means their 
becoming reality may be looked upon as the touchstone 
for his importance, the program-maker's ultimate intention 
can never be realized, as the human mind is well able to 
grasp facts of truth and to establish crystal-clear goals, 
but their complete execution will necessarily fail because 
of the general human incompleteness and inadequacy. The 
more abstractly right and therefore powerful this idea 
may be, the more impossible remains its complete fulfill- 
ment as long as it depends on human beings. Therefore 
the program-maker's importance must not be measured by 

'In 1930 also the interest rates for long-term credits were, 
despite the depression, almost as high as they had been during 
the boom period (when the rates were unduly high even for 
such times). And again the Reichsbank discount rates were 
much lower. Therefore the producers of consumers' goods and 
the merchants (by reason of their inventories) suffered under 
the heaviest interest burden, in relation to the general economic 
situation, during 1924 and 1930. The middle classes naturally 
felt it most, since its members could less easily find the way to 
the sources of credit. For this reason the middle classes turned 
with pleasure in such periods to a movement which promised to 
"break the slavery of interest." ' 



BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITY 285 

the fulfillment of his aims, but rather by their correctness 
and the influence which they have taken on in the develop- 
ment of mankind. If it were different, one could not count 
the founders of religions among the greatest men on this 
earth, since the fulfillment of their ethical intentions can 
never be even a nearly complete one. Even the religion of 
love, in its effects, is only a weak reflection of the volition 
of its sublime founder; but its importance is to be sought in 
the orientation which it tried to give to a cultural, ethical, 
and moral development in general. 

The extremely great difference in the tasks of the pro- 
gram-maker and the politician is also the reason why a 
combination of both in one person is almost never to be 
found. This may be said especially of the so-called ' success- 
ful ' small politicians whose activity is for the most part only 
an 'art of the possible 9 as Bismarck described, somewhat 
modestly, politics in general. The freer such a 'politician* 
keeps himself from great ideas, the easier and frequently 
also the more visible, yet always faster, will his successes be. 
Of course, they are thereby also subject to worldly evanes- 
cence and sometimes they do not outlive the death of their 
fathers. The work of such politicians is, on the whole, un- 
important for posterity, since their successes in the present 
are based only on warding off all really great and incisive 
problems and ideas, which as such would also have been of 
value for coming generations. 

The execution of such aims as are of value and importance 
for the distant future brings little reward to him who de- 
fends them and finds little understanding with the great 
masses who, at the first, understand enactments concerning 
beer and milk better than farseeing plans for the future, the 
execution of which could arrive only later on, but the use- 
fulness of which would be of value only to posterity. 

Thus, out of a certain vanity which is always a relative 
of stupidity, the great mass of all politicians will keep away 



286 MEIN KAMPF 

from all really difficult plans for the future, in order not to 
lose the sympathy of the mob of the present. The success 
and the importance of such politicians are to be found, 
therefore, exclusively in the present and they do not exist 
for posterity. For little minds this is not embarrassing ; they 
are content with this. 

With the program-maker the situation is different. His 
importance lies always almost exclusively in the future, as 
not infrequently he is what is described by the words 'se- 
cluded from the world.' For, if the politician's art may be 
looked upon really as an art of the possible, then the pro- 
gram-maker may be counted among those of whom it is 
said that the gods like them only if they ask for, and desire, 
the impossible. Nearly always he will have to renounce 
the recognition of the present, but in turn he will harvest, 
provided his ideas are immortal, the fame of posterity. 

During long periods of human life it thus may sometime 
happen that the politician unites with the program-maker. 
But the closer this amalgamation is, the greater are the 
obstacles which resist the politician's work. Then he works 
no longer for the requirements which are clear to any philis- 
tine, but for aims which are understood only by few. There- 
fore his life is torn between love and hate. The protest of 
the present, which does not understand this man, wrestles 
with the acknowledgment of posterity for which, after all, 
he works. 

For the greater a man's works for the future are, the less 
is the present able to understand them, and the more diffi- 
cult also is the fight and the more rare the success. But if, 
nevertheless, in the course of centuries one man succeeds in 
this, then he may perhaps, in his later years, be surrounded 
by a faint glimmer of the coming glory. But these great 
ones are only the marathon runners of history; the laurel 
wreath of the present only just touches the temples of the 
dying hero. 



BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITY 28? 

But among them must be counted the great fighters in 
this world, those who, although not understood by their 
time, are nevertheless ready to fight the battle for their ideas 
and ideals. They are those who once will be nearest to the 
heart of the people; it almost seems as though everyone 
would then feel it his duty now to make good in the present 
what the past had once sinned against the great. Their 
life and work is followed in touchingly grateful admiration, 
and especially in gloomy days, it will be able to uplift 
broken hearts and despairing souls. 

These, however, are not only the really great statesmen, 
but also all other great reformers. Side by side with Fred- 
erick the Great stands a Martin Luther as well as a Richard 
Wagner. &lt; 

When listening to Gottfried Feder's first lecture about the 
* Breaking of the Tyranny of Interest,' I knew immediately 
that the question involved was a theoretical truth which 
would reach enormous importance for the German people's 
future. The sharp separation of the stock exchange capital 
from the national economy offered the possibility of fighting 
the internationalization of German economic life, without 
threatening with the fight against capital in general, also 
the &gt; l&gt;asis of an independent folk autonomy. Germany's de- 
velopment already stood before my eyes too clearly for me 
not to know that the hardest battle had to be fought, not 
against hostile nations, but rather against international cap- 
ital. In Feder's lecture I sensed a powerful slogan for this 
coming fight. 

But here, too, the later development proved how correct 
our feeling of those days was. Today we are no longer 
laughed at by the sly-boots of our bourgeois politicians; 
today even they, provided they are not conscious liars, see 
that the international stock exchange capital was not only 
the great instigator of war, but that just now, after the 
fight has been ended, it does not refrain from turning peace 
into hell. 



888 MEIN KAMPF 

The fight against international finance and loan capital 
has become the most important point in the program of the 
German nation's fight for its independence and freedom. 

But as regards the objections of the so-called 'practi- 
cians/ one can give the following answer: all your fears 
about the terrible economic consequences of carrying out 
the 'breaking of the tyranny of interest' are superfluous; 
because, first of all, the prescriptions you gave the German 
people so far have not done it any good at all; your attitude 
towards the questions of national autonomy remind us very 
much of the reports of similar experts of times past, for 
example of the Bavarian Medical Board on occasion of the 
question of introducing the railroads; it is well known that 
all the fears of this venerable corporation of those days were 
never justified; the passengers in the trains of the new 
'steam horse' did not become dizzy, the spectators, too, 
were not taken ill, and one abandoned the wooden fences 
for making the new institution invisible; only the wooden 
fence in the head of all the so-called 'experts' was preserved 
for posterity. 

Secondly, however, one should remember the following: 
every and even the best idea becomes a danger as soon as it 
pretends to be an end in itself, but in reality only represents 
a means to an end; but for myself and all true National 
Socialists there is only one doctrine: people and country. 

What we have to fight for is the security of the existence and 



The meaning of 'international capital' at this time was 
'capitalistic England. 1 Party philosophers saw in perfidious 
Albion a spider in a counting-house. With the help of smaller 
Jewish spiders, it had enmeshed Germany in its net and de- 
voured it. France was looked upon as a mere tool in the hands 
of the London 'City.' Gradually the term took on other mean- 
ings: the authors of the Dawes and Young Plans, investors in 
German bonds, and great speculators like Ivan Kreuger. 



BEGINNING OF MY POLITICAL ACTIVITY 289 

the increase of our race and our people, the nourishment of its 
children and the preservation of the purity of the blood, the free- 
dom and independence of the fatherland in order to enable our 
people to mature for the fulfillment of the mission which the 
Creator of the universe has allotted also to them. 

Every thought and every idea, every doctrine and all 
knowledge, have to serve this purpose. From this point of 
view everything has to be examined and to be employed or 
to be rejected according to its usefulness. Thus no theory 
can stiffen into a mortal doctrine, since everything serves 
only for life. 

Gottfried Feder's conclusions, however, were the cause 
which made me occupy myself thoroughly with this domain 
which had hitherto been little familiar to me. 

Now I began to learn again, and now for the first time I 
came to the understanding of the contents and the meaning 
of the life-work of the Jew Karl Marx. Only now his ' Cap- 
ital f became really comprehensible to me, as well as Social 
Democracy's fight against the national economy, the aim of 
which is to prepare the ground for its domination of the 
truly international finance and stock exchange capital. 



But these courses had the greatest effective consequence 
in still another direction. 

One day I wanted to speak in the discussion. One of the 
participants thought it his duty to enter the lists for the 
Jews, and he began to defend them in lengthy arguments. 
This aroused me to reply. An overwhelming number of the 
pupils who were present were of my point of view. The 
result was that a few days later I was ordered to report to 
one of the erstwhile Munich regiments as a so-called 'in- 
struction officer.' 

In those days the discipline among the troops was still 
rather weak. It suffered from the after-effects of the period 



290 MEIN KAMPF 

of Soldiers' Councils. Only very slowly and cautiously 
could one change over to introducing, instead of the 'volun- 
tary' obedience as one so nicely named the pigsty under 
the rule of Kurt Eisner military discipline and subordi- 
nation. In the same way the unit was now to learn to feel 
and to think in terms of nation and fatherland. In these 
two directions lay the domains of my new activity. 

I started full of ambition and love. For thus I was at 
once offered the opportunity to speak before a large audi- 
ence; and what previously I had always presumed, merely 
out of pure feeling without knowing it, occurred now: I 
could 'speak.' My voice also had already improved so 
much that I could be heard sufficiently at least in the small 
squad rooms. 

No other task could make me happier than this one, 
because now I was able, even before my discharge, to render 
useful services to that institution which had been infinitely 
near to my heart, the army. 

Also, I could speak of some success. 

I thus led back many hundreds, probably even thousands, 
in the course of my lectures to their people and fatherland. 
I 'nationalized' the troops, and in this way I was able also 
to help to strengthen the general discipline. 

Again I became thereby acquainted with a number of 
comrades with the same convictions who later began to 
form the basic stock of the new movement. 



CHAPTER IX 
THE GERMAN WORKERS 1 PARTY 



ONE day I received orders from my headquarters to 
find out what was behind an apparently political 
society which, under the name of ' German Workers' 
Party,' intended to hold a meeting on one of the following 
days, in which also Gottfried Feder was supposed to speak; 
I was to go there and to look at the society and to report 
upon it. 

One could easily understand the curiosity which in those 
days the army showed towards political parties. Revolu- 
tion had bestowed the right of political activity on the sol- 
dier, and now those of them who were least experienced 
made ample use of it. Only in the moment when the Center 
Party and Social Democracy had to realize, to their regret, 
that the soldiers' sympathy began to turn away from the 
revolutionary parties towards the national movement and 
resurrection, one saw fit to deprive the soldiers again of the 
right of franchise and to forbid political activity. 

It was, therefore, clear that the Center Party and Marx- 
ism took up this measure, for, if one had not undertaken 
this curtailment of 'civil rights' (as one called the political 
equality of the soldier before the Revolution), there would 
have been no revolution a few years later, and therefore 
also no further national degradation and dishonor. In 



292 MEIN KAMPF 

those days the troops were well on the way towards reliev- 
ing the nation of its bloodsuckers and the Entente's handy- 
men in the interior. That now also the so-called 'national 9 
parties voted enthusiastically for the correction of the pre- 
vious opinions of the November criminals, and thus helped 
to render innocuous the instrument of the national rising, 
only shows where the purely doctrinary ideas of these most 
harmless of the harmless could lead to. The bourgeoisie, 
which was really suffering from mental senility, was, in all 
sincerity, of the opinion that now the army would again 
become what it had been, namely, a stronghold of German 
fighting power, while Center and Marxism thought only to 
break out its dangerous national poisonous fang, without 
which, however, an army will forever remain only 'police/ 
but will not be a 'troop' able to fight against the foreign 
enemy; something that later on was amply proved. 

Or did perhaps our ' national politicians ' believe that the 
army's development could be other than national? That 
really would be just like them. But this is the consequence 
of the fact that, instead of being a soldier in the War, one 
is a babbler, that means a parliamentarian, and that one 
has no idea what goes on in the minds of men who are 
reminded by the most glorious past that they were once the 
first soldiers of the world. 

Thus I decided to go to the abovementioned meeting of 
that party which was until then still entirely unknown to 
me. 

When in the evening I entered the 'Leiber' room which 
later on was to become of historical importance for us, of 
the former Sterneckerbrau in Munich, I met there about 
twenty to twenty-five people, chiefly from among the lower 
walks of life. 

Feder's lecture was already familiar to me from the 
courses, and therefore I could devote myself to looking at 
the assembly proper. 



THE GERMAN WORKERS' PARTY 293 

Its impression on me was neither good nor bad; a new 
foundation like so many others. It was the time when every- 
one who was dissatisfied with the development things had 
taken so far, and who no longer had confidence in the 
existing parties, felt called upon to launch a new party. 
Thus such societies sprang up everywhere, only to disap- 
pear again silently after some time. The founders, in most 
cases, had no idea what it means to develop a society into 
a party or even into a movement. Thus these foundations 
nearly always suffocated in their ridiculous bourgeois at- 
mosphere. 

After listening for about two hours I did not judge the 
4 German Workers' Party ' from any different point of view. 
I was glad when Feder finally finished. I had seen enough 
and was just about to go when the open discussion, which 

In Bavaria after the War strong groups, particularly among 
the peasants, came to the conclusion that Germany was ir- 
retrievably lost, and that the sole hope was to erect a Bavarian 
State, larger, if possible, than the Bavaria of pre-iSyo days. It 
was also believed that if such a State were formed, it would be 
granted concessions in the matter of reparations. The chief 
protagonist of these ideas was Dr. Georg Heim, a Center Party 
politician with a great following among the peasants. He 
sounded out President Wilson on the probable attitude of the 
Allies towards a separate Bavaria, and made a considerable 
effort to persuade Austria the Tyrol in particular to 
join the projected State. Nothing came of it, first of all because 
the Crown Prince kept aloof. But the agitation did have one 
consequence of fateful import the separation of the Bavarian 
People's Party from the Center Party, and therewith the weak- 
ening of the position of Catholics in the Reich as a whole. la 
the initial appeal issued by the sundered group, it was pro- 
claimed that Germany was only a 'uniting of the German 
States on a federal basis,' that any Constitution adopted by the 
nation as a whole would need ratification by the separate 



294 MEIN KAMPF 

was announced at that moment, made me decide to stay 
after all. But here also everything seemed to take an unim- 
portant course, till suddenly a 'professor' was given the 
floor who first expressed doubts of the correctness of Feder's 
reasons, and then, after the latter had replied very ably, 
planted himself on the ground of ' facts,' not without recom- 
mending, however, to the young party to take up the 
'severance' of Bavaria from 'Prussia' as an especially im- 
portant point of the party program. The man had the 
cheek to pretend that, in that case, German Austria espe- 
cially would immediately link itself to Bavaria, and that 
then the peace would be a far better one, and other similar 
nonsense. Thereupon I could not help but announce my 
intention to speak, in order to give this learned man my 
opinion on this point, with the result that the gentleman 
who had just spoken left the scene like a drenched poodle, 
even before I had finished.f When I spoke they had listened 
with astonished faces, and only when I was about to say 
good-night to the assembly, a man came running after me, 
introduced himself (I even did not understand his name, 
correctly), and handed me a small booklet, obviously a 
political pamphlet, with the urgent request that I read 
this by all means. 
This was very agreeable to me, for now I could hope that 

States, and that Bavaria would join the Reich only on the con- 
dition that the especial political, cultural, and economic rights 
to which it was entitled were respected 'in constitutional law.' 
It was a spokesman for this point of view whom Hitler ha- 
rangues out of the meeting like a 'drenched poodle.' 

Hitler had now proved that he could 'orate* as effectively as 
Feder and the other instructors appointed by his military 
superiors, one of whom a Captain Mayr later on joined 
the Social Democratic Party and the military organization (the 
Rcichsbanncr) associated with it. 



THE GERMAN WORKERS' PARTY 295 

perhaps in this way I could become acquainted with this 
boring society in an easier manner, without being forced 
again to attend such interesting meetings. For the rest, 
this man who was apparently a worker, had made a good 
impression on me. With this now I went away. 

In those days I still lived in the barracks of the Second 
Infantry Regiment, in a tiny room which still showed very 
clearly the traces of the Revolution. During the day I was 
out, mostly with the Rifle Regiment 4, or at meetings or 
lectures with some other army unit, etc. Only at night I 
slept in my quarters. As I used to wake up in the morning 
before five o'clock, I had gotten into the habit of throwing 
pieces of bread or hard crusts to the little mice which spent 
their time in the small room, and then to watch these droll 
little animals romp and scuffle for these few delicacies. I 
had already known so much misery during my lifetime that 
I was able to imagine only too well the hunger, and there- 
fore also the pleasure, of the little things. 

On the morning after this meeting, towards five o'clock, 
I was lying awake in my cot and looking at this bustle and 
activity. Since I could not go to sleep again, I suddenly 
thought of the previous evening, and now I remembered the 
booklet which the worker had given to me. And so I began 



3 The author of this pamphlet was Anton Drexler, a simple and 
sickly man who had been declared unfit for military service. A 
few copies of the brochure have been preserved. Its principal 
argument was that the German worker must turn, if he hoped 
for a decent livelihood, from internationalism to nationalism. 
If he remained addicted to the first, he would forever be gouged 
by a hostile international finance. During the War Drexler had 
joined the Vaterlandspartei and so expressed his disapproval 
of the Reichstag Peace Resolution of 1917. He called his first 
unit * Freier Arbeiterauschuss fuer einen guten Frieden* (Com- 
mittee of Free Workers for a Good Peace) ; and after the War he 



296 MEIN KAMPF 

to read. It was a little pamphlet in which the author, this 
particular worker, described how, out of the medley of 
Marxist and unionist phrases, he again arrived at thinking 
in national terms; this explained the title, 'My Political 
Awakening/ Once I had started, I read the entire little 
document with interest; for in it an event was reflected 
which I had gone through personally in a similar way 
twelve years ago. Involuntarily I saw thus my own devel- 
opment come to life again before my eyes.-^ In the course 
of the day I thought about it several times and was finally 
just about to put it away when, less than a week later, to 
my astonishment, I received a postcard with the news that 
I had been accepted as a member of the ' German Workers' 
Party'; I was requested to express my opinion about this, 
and for that purpose I was expected to come to a committee 
meeting of the party on the following Wednesday. 

I was actually more than astonished at this manner of 
'winning' members, and I did not know whether to be an- 
noyed or to laugh at it. I had no intention of joining a 



changed the name to 'Deutsche Arbeiterpartei' (German Work- 
ers' Party). A few similar groups sprang up here and there in 
Germany, advocating a Socialistic program to be realized out- 
side the Marxist sphere because internationalism had failed. 
The most famous exponent of this point of view in North Ger- 
many was to be August Winnig. 

The chairman of the German Workers' Party was Karl 
Harrer, a journalist who almost from the beginning took a dis- 
like to Hitler. He was opposed to violent anti-Semitism (as 
were the majority of Germans in that time), and he was not a 
man to wield the bayonet too ferociously. A year went by be- 
fore the recalcitrant Harrer could be ousted from his position. 
In retrospect the historian must conclude: at that time the 
question was not merely whether Hitler would join the Party 
but whether the Party would have Hitler. 



THE GERMAN WORKERS' PARTY 291 

ready-made party, but wished to found a party of my own. 
This unreasonable demand was really out of the question 
for me. 

I was just about to send the gentlemen my written reply, 
when curiosity gained the upper hand and I decided to 
appear on the day fixed in order to define my reasons orally. 

Wednesday arrived. The restaurant in which the said 
meeting was to take place was the Alte Rosenbad in the 
Herrenstrasse; a very poor restaurant, to which only once 
in a blue moon somebody seemed to find his way by mis- 
take. This was not surprising in the year 1919, when the 
menus of even the larger restaurants were able to attract 
customers but very modestly and poorly. But until then 
I had not known this inn at all. 

I passed through the sparsely lit guestroom where not 
a soul was present, looked for the door to the adjoining 
room, and then I was face to face with the 'meeting. 9 In 
the twilight of a half-demolished gas lamp four young 
people were sitting at a table, among them also the author 
of the little booklet, who immediately greeted me in the 
most friendly terms and welcomed me as a new member of 
the 'German Workers' Party.' 

Now I was somewhat taken aback. As I was informed 
that the actual ' Chairman for the organization in the Reich ' 
was still to come, I intended holding back my explanation. 
The latter finally appeared. He was the chairman of the 
meeting in the SterneckerbrSu on the occasion of Feder's 
lecture. 

Meanwhile my curiosity was again aroused and I was full 
of expectation for the things to come. Now I finally learned 
the names of the various gentlemen. The chairman of the 
'organization in the Reich' was a Herr Harrer, that of the 
Munich district, Anton Drexler. 

Now the minutes of the last session were read, and the 
confidence of the assembly was expressed to the secretary t 



298 MEIN KAMPF 

Next followed the treasury report (there were all in all 
7 Marks and 50 Pfennings in the possession of the party), 
for which the assurance of the general confidence was ex- 
pressed to the treasurer. Now this again was put down in 
the minutes. Then followed the First Chairman's reading 
of the answers to a letter from Kiel to one from Diisseldorf 
and to one from Berlin; everybody agreed to them. Now 
the documents received were read : a letter from Berlin, one 
from Diisseldorf, and one from Kiel, the arrival of which 
seemed to be accepted with great satisfaction. One ex- 
plained this growing correspondence as the best and most 
visible symptom of the spreading importance of the 'Ger- 
man Workers ' Party.' Then a lengthy discussion about the 
answers to be made took place. 

Terrible, terrible; this was club-making of the worst kind 
and manner. And this club I now was to join? 

Then the new memberships were discussed, that means, 
my being caught. 

Now I began to ask questions. Apart from a few leading 
principles, nothing existed; no party program, no leaflets, 
nothing in print at all, no membership cards, not even a 
miserable rubber stamp; only visibly good faith and good 
will. 

My smile had disappeared again, for what was all this 
but the typical symptom of utter helplessness and complete 
despair covering all previous parties, their programs, their 
intentions and their activities? What made these four 
young people come together to an outwardly so ridiculous 
activity was actually only the expression of their inner 
voice which, emotionally rather than consciously, made all 
the previous doings of parties appear as no longer suitable 
for a rise of the German nation as well as for the healing of 
its internal damages. I quickly read through the leading 
principles which were available in a typed copy, and in 
them I saw a seeking rather than knowledge. Many tilings 



THE GERMAN WORKERS' PARTY 299 

*rere dim or uncertain, many things were missing, but 
nothing was there which in its turn could not be looked upon 
as a symptom of struggling toward realization. 

I, too, knew what these people felt; it was the longing for 
a new movement which was to be more than a party in the 
previous sense of the word. 

When I went home to the barracks on that evening, I 
had already formed my opinion of this society. 

Now I was faced by perhaps the most serious question of 
my life: was I to join or was I to refuse? 

My reason could only advise me to refuse, but my feeling 
would not let me find peace, and the more often I tried to 
keep the absurdity of this entire club before my eyes, the 
more often did feeling speak in favor of it. 

In the days that followed I was restless. 

I began to ponder about the pros and cons. I had long 
since made up my mind to take up political activity; that 
this could be only in a new movement was also clear to me, 
so far only the instigation for action had not come. I do 
not belong to those who start something one day in order to 
end it again the next day or to change over, if possible, to 
another affair. But this very conviction was the chief rea- 
son, among others, why it was so difficult for me to make up 
my mind to found such a movement. I knew that for me 
this would mean a decision forever, where there would 
never be a 'turn back.' For me it was not a temporary 
game, but dead earnest. Even in those days I had always 
had an instinctive aversion to people who start something 
without, however, also carrying it out; 1 loathed these 
jacks-of-all-trades. I considered the activity of these people 
worse than doing nothing. 

This opinion, however, was one of the chief reasons why 
I was not able, like perhaps so many others, to decide to 
found something which either was to become everything 
or which else, more suitably, should not be carried out 
atalL 



300 MEIN KAMPF 

Now Fate itself seemed to give me a hint. I should never 
have joined one of the existing parties, and later on I will 
state the reasons for this; for this reason, however, this 
ridiculously small foundation with its handful of members 
seemed to me to have the advantage that it had not yet 
hardened into an 'organization/ but seemed to offer to the 
individual the chance for real personal activity. For this 
was the advantage which was bound to result: here one 
would still be able to work, and the smaller the movement 
was, the easier it would be to bring it into the right shape. 
Here the contents, the goal, and the way could still be 
fixed, something that with the existing great parties was 
impossible from the beginning. 

The longer I tried to think about it, the more the con- 
viction grew in my mind that just here, out of such a small 
movement, some day the rise of the nation could be pre- 
pared, but never from the political parliamentarian parties 
which clung much too much to the old ideas or even shared 
the advantages of the new regime. For what was to be 
announced now was a new view of life and not a new elec- 
tion slogan. 

t However, it was an infinitely hard decision to wish to 
transform this intention into reality. 

What prerequisites did I myself bring to this task? 

That I had no means and was poor seemed to me the 
most easily endurable, but it was more difficult that I sim- 
ply belonged to the great crowd of nameless people, that I 
was one among the millions who are allowed to continue to 
live by sheer accident, or who are called from life again 
without even their surroundings condescending to take 
notice of it. To this came the difficulty which was bound 
to result from my lack of schools. 

The so-called 'intelligentsia 9 at any rate looks down with 
really infinite condescension on everyone who has not been 
pulled through the obligatory schools in order to have the 



THE GERMAN WORKERS' PARTY 301 

necessary knowledge pumped into his brains. Actually, the 
question is never, What can this man do, but what has he 
learned? To these 'educated' ones the greatest empty- 
head, provided he is only wrapped in a sufficient number of 
certificates, is worth more than even the most clever boy 
who does not possess these priceless paper bags. I was able 
to imagine in what way this 'educated' world would con- 
front me, and in that I was wrong only in so far as in those 
days I still believed people to be better than they unfor- 
tunately are, for the greater part, in sober reality. This, of 
course, as everywhere else, lights up the exceptions much 
more brightly. Thus I learned to distinguish all the more 
between the eternal ' pupils ' and the really competent. &lt; 

After two days of agonized pondering and reflection I 
finally arrived at the decision to take the step. 

It was the most decisive decision of my life. 

There could not, and must not, be a retreat. 

Thus I registered as a member of the German Workers' 
Party and received a provisional membership ticket with 
the number seven. 



CHAPTER X 
THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 



E depth of the fall of a body is always the measure 
for the distance of its momentary situation from the 
one it had originally. The same may also be said of 
the fall of nations and States. With this, however, a deci- 
sive significance must be attributed to the previous situation 
or rather height. Only that which usually rises above the 
general level can also fall or tumble visibly deep. This 
makes the collapse of the Reich so serious and terrible for 
every thinking and feeling man, that it brought the fall 
from a height hardly still imaginable in the face of the mis- 
ery of the present degradation. 

Even the very foundation of the Reich seemed to be 
gilded by the charm of an event that elated the entire na- 
tion. After an incomparably victorious course there arises 
finally, as the reward for immortal heroism, a Reich for the 
sons and the grandsons. Whether consciously or uncon- 
sciously, it makes no difference, all the Germans had the 
feeling that this Reich, which did not owe its existence to 
the cheating of parliamentary factions, stood out over the 
measure of other States solely by the sublime manner of 
its foundation; for, not in the cackling of parliamentary 
word battles, but under the thundering and roaring of the 
Parisian blockade front took place the solemn act of the 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 303 

manifestation of the will, that the Germans, lords and 
people, were determined to form one realm in the future 
and again to elevate the imperial crown as a symbol; not 
with assassination had this been carried out, not deserters 
and duty-shirkers were the founders of the State of Bis- 
marck, but the regiments of the front. 

This unique birth and baptism of fire alone wove around 
the Reich a glimmer of historic fame, such as was but 
rarely the lot of the oldest States. 

And what a rise now set in! 

The freedom towards the exterior gave the daily bread 
to the interior. The nation became rich in numbers and 
worldly goods. The honor of the State, however, and with 
it that of the entire people, was guarded and protected by 
an army which most visibly showed the difference from the 
one-time German Union. 

So deep is the fall which hits the Reich and the German 
people that at first everybody, as if seized with dizziness, 
seems to have lost feeling and consciousness; one can 
hardly remember the previous height, so dreamlike and 
unreal appears, measured by the misery of the present, the 
greatness and splendor of that time. 

Thus it may also be explained that one is only too 
blinded by the sublime, and thereby forgets to look for the 
omens of the enormous collapse which certainly must have 
somewhere been present. 

This may be said, of course, only of those for whom Ger- 
many was more than a mere dwelling-place for making and 
spending money, as only they are able to experience the 
present condition as a breakdown, while to the others it is 
the fulfillment of their hitherto unsatisfied wishes, long 
desired. ^4- 

These omens, however, were visibly present at that time, 
though only very few tried to draw a certain lesson from 
them. 



304 MEIN KAMPF 

Today this is more necessary than ever. 

Just as one is only able to arrive at the cure of an illness 
if the cause of it is known, the same may be said also as 
regards curing political evils. Of course, one usually sees 
and recognizes the outward form of an illness, the symp- 
toms that catch the eye, more easily than its inner cause. 
This is also the reason why so many people never go beyond 
the discovery of outward symptoms and therefore even 
confuse the symptoms with the cause, nay, even preferably 
try to deny the presence of such a cause altogether. There- 
fore also, most of us primarily see the German collapse only 
as a result of the general economic distress and its conse- 
quences. Almost everyone, however, has to share in carry- 
ing the burden of this distress, so that here is found a cogent 
reason for every single individual to understand the catas- 
trophe. But the great masses see far less the collapse in the 
political, cultural, and ethical-moral direction, etc. Here, 
feeling and also reason fail completely with many people. 

That this is so with the great masses may be allowable, 
but that also in the circles of the intelligentsia the German 
collapse is looked upon primarily as an 'economic catas- 
trophe,' and that therefore the cure is expected to come 
from economy, is one of the reasons why so far recovery has 
been impossible. Only if one realizes that here, too, econ- 



Criticism of the so-called 'business enterprise State* i.e., 
the State which looks upon economic enterprise as the chief 
source of riches and therefore of well-being was a favorite 
topic of post-War Rightist literature. Oswald Spengler held 
that the basis structure of modern society is national and politi- 
cal, so that industry depends upon its fundament, the State. 
On the other hand, it is independent in the sense that leader- 
ship must be developed inside the industry itself. Hence the 
necessity for personal leadership and initiative. (Cf . Neubau 
dtische 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 305 

erniy is only of second or even third importance, but that 
political, ethical-moral, as well as factors of blood and race, 
are of the first importance, then one will strive at an under- 
standing of the causes of the present misfortune, and with 
it, one will be able to find means and ways to recovery. 

The quest for the causes of the German collapse is there- 
fore of decisive importance, above all for a political move- 
ment, the very goal of which is to be the conquest of the 
defeat. 

But also with such research into the past one has to guard 
very much against confusing the effects, which more surely 
catch the eye, with the less visible causes. 

The easiest and therefore also the most widespread ex- 
planation of today's misfortune is that the consequences 
involved are those of the lost war, and that therefore the 
latter is the cause of the present evil. 

Now there may be many who will seriously believe this 
nonsense, but there are many more out of whose mouths 
such an explanation can only be a lie and conscious un- 
truth. This may be said of all those who today have their 
place at the government's mangers. For, did not once the 
very announcers of the Revolution most urgently point 
out, again and again to the people, that for the great masses 
it would make no difference whatsoever how this war 



Oddly enough this is virtually the same reasoning to which 
the Majority Socialists resorted during the War in order to at- 
tack Minority Socialists who maintained that the worker had 
no interest in the struggle, and that therefore his party was not 
justified in supporting the government either by voting credits 
or by rendering patriotic service. Scheidemann, David, and 
Ebert maintained that if Germany did not defend herself to 
the utmost of her ability, German industry would lose its 
markets and therewith its ability to pay wages. But they all 
repudiated ware of conquest. 



106 MEIN KAMPF 

would end? Have they not, on the contrary, asserted most 
seriously that at the utmost only the ' great capitalist 9 
could have any interest in the victorious end of this colossal 
wrestling of nations, but never the German people itself, or 
even the German worker? Indeed, on the contrary, did not 
these apostles of world reconciliation assert 'militarism' 
could only be destroyed by the German defeat, but that the 
German people would celebrate its most glorious resur- 
rection? Did one not praise in these circles the benevo- 
lence of the Entente, and did one not charge Germany with 
the entire guilt of bloody struggle? But would one have 
been able to do so without the explanation that even defeat 
would have no special consequences for the nation? Was 
not the entire Revolution trimmed with the phrase that 
through it the victory of the German flag would be pre- 
vented, and that thereby the German people would face all 
the more its inner and outer freedom? 

Was this perhaps not so, you miserable and lying fel- 
lows? 

It really takes a truly Jewish impudence to attribute the 
cause of the collapse to the military defeat, while the cen- 
tral organ of all traitors of nations, the Vorwaerts of Berlin, 
wrote nevertheless that this time the German people would 
not be allowed to bring its flags home with victory! 

And this is now supposed to be the cause of our collapse? 

It would naturally be quite useless to quarrel with such 
forgetful liars, and therefore I would also not waste one 
word about it, if unfortunately this nonsense were not 
repeated parrot-like by so many entirely thoughtless 
people, without that maliciousness or conscious untruth- 
fulness that would give the cause for this. But, further- 
more, these explanations are intended to be helpful to our 
fighters for enlightenment, which is very necessary anyhow 
in a time when the spoken word is usually twisted in one's 
very mouth. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 307 

Thus in reply to the statement that the lost war is guilty 
of the German collapse, the following is to be said : 

The loss of the War was certainly of terrible importance 
to the future of our fatherland, but this loss is not a cause, 
but, in turn, again only a consequence of other causes. That 
an unfortunate end of this fight for life and death was 
bound to lead to very disastrous consequences was cer- 
tainly entirely clear to every sensible and not malicious 
person, but unfortunately there were also those whose 
intelligence seemed to be lacking at the right time, or who, 
contrary to their better knowledge, nevertheless first dis- 
puted and denied this truth; these were for the greater part 
those who, after the realization of their secret wish, now 
suddenly receive the belated realization of the catastrophe 
which they helped to bring about. They, therefore, are the 
culprits of the collapse, and not the lost war, as it now 

This passage is first of all a defense of General Ludendorfl 
and of the dictatorship he exercised during the War. The 
argument is characteristic. Unfortunately the Pan-German 
element had to concede that the sacrifices of four years had 
been in vain ; and it determined now to fight down the popular 
feeling that war itself, as an instrument of national policy, had 
been repudiated. Therefore the argument that peace is the 
most effective solvent of national greatness re-appears in a 
thousand forms. Nevertheless relatively few Nazis have ven- 
tured to assert that war itself is good. Normally they shrink a 
little from drawing all the conclusions latent in Spengler's 
phrase, ' Man is a beast of prey.' What they generally advo- 
cate is an army ideally perfect, so that Germany may impose 
its peace upon the world without the shedding of blood. For as 
Houston Stewart Chamberlain said during the War, only the 
German word for peace Friede expresses what the world 
needs, a Masting realm of love and tenderness' (a kind of ex- 
tension of the last act of Tristan und Isolde). The French word 
Paix stands for nothing except a pact, a treaty. Hitler 



308 MEIN KAMPF 

pleases them to say and to believe. For the loss of the Wai 
was only the consequence of their activity, and not, as they 
now assert, the result of 'bad' leadership. The enemy, too, 
did not consist of cowards; he, too, knew how to die; his 
number was, for the first day, greater than that of the Ger- 
man army, his technical armament had the arsenals of the 
whole world at his disposal; thus the fact that the German 
victories which were gained by fighting against a whole 
world during four years were due, with all heroic courage 
and all 'organization/ only to superior leadership, cannot 
be denied in the face of reality. The organization and the 
leadership of the German army were the most colossal 
affair which the earth has ever seen so far. Its deficiencies 
were within the bounds of general human imperfection as a 
whole. 

That this army broke down was not the cause of our pre- 
sent misfortune, but only the consequence of other crimes, a 
consequence which in its turn, however, introduced the 
beginning of a further and this time more conspicuous col- 
lapse. 

That this is the case may be derived from the following: 

When, then, is a military defeat bound to lead to such a 

complete breakdown of a nation and a State? Since when 

is this the result of an unlucky war? Do nations perish at 

all by a lost war as such? 



in office is fond of demanding that every German must be- 
come, physically and mentally, an instrument of the High 
Command, and of the turning the next minute to a proclama- 
tion of his ardent desire for peace. One may, perhaps, put the 
matter in a nutshell by saying: for Mr. Neville Chamberlain 
1 peace' is something that will permit the British investor to 
keep on excelling at the hunt; for Mr. Hitler it is something 
that results from the scare that follows a mobilization of the 
German army. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 309 

The answer to this can be very short: Whenever nations 
receive in their military defeat the return for their inner 
corruption, cowardice, and lack of character, in short, for 
their unworthiness. If this is not the case, then the military 
defeat will become the impulse for a coming greater rise 
rather than the tombstone of a nation's existence. 

History offers no end of examples for the correctness of 
this assertion. 

Unfortunately, the military defeat of the German people 
is not an undeserved catastrophe, but rather a deserved 
punishment by eternal retribution. We more than de- 
served this defeat. It is only the greatest outward symp- 
tom of decay among quite a series of internal ones which 
perhaps would have remained hidden to the eye of most 
people, or which perhaps one, in ostrich-like manner, did 
not want to see. 

One should only look at the accompanying symptoms 
with which the German people accepted this defeat. Had 
one not in many circles actually expressed joy at the mis- 
fortune of the fatherland in the most shameless way? But 
who does this if he does not really deserve such punish- 
ment? Indeed, did one not even go farther and boast of 
finally having caused the front to retreat? And it was not 
the enemy who did this, no, no, it was Germans who piled 
such disgrace upon their heads! Did misfortune perhaps 
hit them unjustly? Since when, however, does one step 
forward in order to attribute the war guilt to oneself? And 
this, despite realization and knowledge to the contrary! 

No, and again no: in the way and in the manner in which 
the German people accepted its defeat one is able to recog- 
nize most clearly that the true cause of our collapse is to be 
found in a place quite apart from the purely military loss 
of some positions or in the failure of an offensive; for if the 
front as such had really failed and if, by its misfortune, the 
doom of the fatherland had been caused, the German 



310 MEIN KAMPF 

people would have accepted defeat in quite a different way. 
Then, with clenched teeth, one would have endured the 
misfortune that now followed, or one would have lamented 
it, overcome by pain; then wrath and fury against the en- 
emy who had become victorious by the cunning of chance 
or by the will of Destiny would have filled the hearts; then, 
like to the Roman Senate, the nation would have stepped 
up to the defeated divisions with the fatherland's thanks 
for the sacrifices made so far, and with the request not to 
despair of the Reich. Even the capitulation would have 
been signed only by force of reason, while the heart would 
have already beaten in expectation of the coming rise. 

After the War a strange frenzy of jubilation was indulged in 
by various groups of Germans. There was dancing all night 
in the streets of villages and towns; delirious welcomes to 
homecoming sweethearts shocked the sedate. The German 
government sent emissaries to welcome troops returning to 
Berlin and to invite their support in putting the new govern- 
ment on a firm basis; but few consented to stay, and those who 
did were normally soon out of control. Soldiers who took up 
quarters in the Berlin Schloss at Liebknecht's behest re- 
emerged decked in the ex-Kaiser's uniforms, their pockets 
stuffed with silver from the Imperial cupboards. Most striking 
detail of all, Berlin was on Christmas Eve, 1918, perilously 
close to the brink of revolution. The government had no 
armed forces on which it could rely; the revolutionaries had 
amassed considerable strength. But as if at a prearranged 
signal, everybody went off to celebrate and the crisis was over. 
One of the most serious charges brought against Erzberger 
was that he had written an old Suabian toast in a tavern book 
at Weimar. All this was, of course, the result of the attack of 
giddiness which followed a sudden release from four years of 
pressure such as no other people had ever been called upon to 
bear. For years nationalists referred to these things as indi- 
cations of the base Qualities that were hidden in the German 
peyche 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 311 

In such a manner one would have accepted a defeat 
which would have been due to Fate alone. Then one would 
not have laughed and danced, then one would not have 
boasted of one's cowardice, and one would not have glori- 
fied the defeat; one would not have jeered at the fighting 
troops and one would not have torn its flag and cockade 
down into the dirt, but above all : then it would never have 
come to that terrible condition which caused an English 
officer, Colonel Repington, to utter the contemptuous re- 
mark: 'Among the Germans every third man is a traitor.' 
No, this pestilence would never have been able to swell up 
to such a suffocating flood which now for five years has 
drowned even the last remainder of respect on the part of 
the rest of the world. 

From this can best be seen the lie contained in the asser- 



The spectacle of Germany in defeat was in some respects 
undignified. Neither, for that matter, was the spectacle of 
Allied countries reveling in victory a highly edifying one. On 
both sides orgies of lust and madness, for which Europe could 
hardly parallel in history, marked the end of the conflict. In 
Germany, American and British observers saw passers-by 
young loafers and deserters for the most part beset officers, 
tear the insignia from their shoulders, and bash their sabres 
against the pavement. One such observer wrote in his diary 
at the time: 'There will be a reaction against these things^and 
it will not be pleasant to contemplate.' Yet such phenomena 
did not illustrate the sentiment of either the people or the 
army as a whole. In November, 1918, a battalion of veterans, 
covered with gray mud, starved to the bone, marched home- 
ward through the streets of Mtinster. On they came with firm 
tread, rifles slung on their shoulders, looking for all the world 
like a procession of wraiths arisen from the battlefields of the 
Marne. The thousands gathered along the streets stood in 
awe-struck silence, until finally a universal sob that shook the 
crowd seemed to come from every throat. In a small Moselle 



312 MEIN KAMPF 

tkm that the lost war was the cause of the German col* 
lapse. No, the military collapse was in its turn only the 
consequence of quite a series of the symptoms of an illness 
and their causes, which had visited the German nation even 
in time of peace. It was this the first catastrophic conse- 
quence of moral poisoning, visible to all, the consequence 
of a decrease in the instinct of self-preservation and of the 
conditions for it, which had already begun to undermine 
the foundations of the people and the Reich many years 
ago. 

But it took the entire bottomless lying of Jewry and its 
Marxist fighting organization to burden with the guilt of 
the collapse just that man, the only one who tried, with 
superhuman will power and energy, to prevent the catas- 
trophe he saw approaching and to spare the nation the time 
of the deepest degradation and dishonor. By stamping 



village, officers of the Fourth Army Corps, A.E.F., attended a 
Christmas midnight Mass, in 1918. Widows in black ushered 
their little children, dressed in white, into the church from out 
of the snow-filled night; and not one of them stood dry-eyed 
as the music of ancient carols eddied round the tombs of village 
warriors dead a thousand years ago. No, it is historically un- 
just to cast aspersions on the German people. They were 
utterly stunned by the suddenness of their defeat, for which 
nothing had prepared them. And they were left to carve out 
their own destiny by officers who, after years of dictatorship, 
wished now to get the ruins off their hands. 

The most effective critics of Ludendorff were not 'Jewish 
writers' or 'Marxist journals, 9 but gentlemen of the Right 
Virtually no one in the Foreign Office at the end of the con- 
flict entertained any doubt that the General had ruined Ger- 
many, and the memoirs of Bernstorff, Solf, Ktthlmann, and 
others bear witness to this fact Nor has military criticism 
been less outspoken. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 313 

Ludendorff aa the culprit of the loss of the World War, one 
took away from the hand of the only dangerous accuser, 
who was able to stand up against the traitors to the father- 
land, the weapon of moral right. Therewith one started 
out with the very correct assumption that in the size of the 
lie there is always contained a certain factor of credibility, 
since the great masses of a people may be more corrupt in 
the bottom of their hearts than they will be consciously and 
intentionally bad, therefore with the primitive simplicity 
of their minds they will more easily fall victims to a great 
lie than to a small one, since they themselves perhaps also 
lie sometimes in little things, but would certainly still be 
too much ashamed of too great lies. Thus such an untruth 
will not at all enter their heads, and therefore they will be 
unable to believe in the possibility of the enormous impu- 
dence of the most infamous distortion in others; indeed, 
they may doubt and hesitate even when being enlightened, 
and they accept any cause at least as nevertheless being 
true; therefore, just for this reason some part of the most 
impudent lie will remain and stick; a fact which all great 
lying artists and societies of this world know only too well 
and therefore also villainously employ. 

Those who know best this truth about the possibilities 
of the application of untruth and defamation, however, 
were at all times the Jews; for their entire existence is built 
on one single great lie, namely, that here one had to deal 
with a religious brotherhood, while in fact one has to do 
with a race what a race! As such they have been nailed 
down forever, in an eternally correct sentence of funda- 
mental truth, by one of the greatest minds of mankind; he 
called them 'the great masters of lying.' He who does not 
realize this or does not want to believe this will never be 
able to help truth to victory in this world. 



314 MEIN KAMPF 

For the sake of the German people one has to consider 
it almost a piece of good fortune that the time of its latent 
illness was not suddenly cut short by such a terrible catas- 
trophe, because otherwise the nation would probably have 
perished more slowly, but nevertheless all the more cer- 
tainly. The illness would then have become a chronic dis- 
ease, whereas now in the acute form of the collapse it be- 
came clearly and distinctly visible at least in the eyes of a 
larger crowd. It was not by accident that man became 
master of the plague more easily than of tuberculosis. The 
one comes in terrible death waves, scourging mankind, the 
other sneaks in slowly; the one leads to terrible fear, the 
other to gradual indifference. But the consequence was 
that man opposed the one with the whole ruthlessness of 
his energy, while he tries to check consumption with weak 
means. Thus he mastered the plague, while he in turn is 
mastered by tuberculosis. 

Exactly the same is also the case with diseases of national 
bodies. If they do not appear in the form of a catastrophe, 
man begins gradually to get used to them and finally he will 
perish by them, though only after a long time, but never- 
theless more certainly. Then it is a good fortune (however 
bitter) if Destiny decides to intervene in this slow process 
of putrid corruption and, at one blow, to put before the eyes 
of him who is stricken the end of the disease. For this is 
what such a catastrophe amounts to more than once. Then 
it may easily become the cause of a recovery which sets in 
with utmost determination. 

But also in such a case the prerequisite is again the real- 
ization of the inner reasons which cause the disease in 
question. 

What is most important also here is the distinction be- 
tween the causes and the conditions they bring about. 
This will be the more difficult the longer the contagious 
matter has been in the nation's body and the more it had 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 315 

already become a natural part and parcel of that body. 
For it may very easily happen that after a certain time one 
no longer considers an absolutely noxious poison as 'alien' 
as such, but that one looks upon it as consistent with one's 
nationality or tolerates it, at the utmost, as a necessary 
evil, so that one no longer considers imperative the search 
for the cause of the morbific agent. 

During the long pre-War years of peace certain patho- 
logic features had certainly appeared and been recognized 
as such, whereas, apart from a few exceptions, one did not 
at all take the morbific agent into account. It might be said 
that here again it was most of all the symptoms of eco- 
nomic life which became conscious to the individual more 
than perhaps the injurious consequences in quite a series 
of other domains. 

There were many signs of decay which ought to have 
stimulated serious reflection. 



In this respect, from the purely economic point of view, 
the following may be said : 

By the rapid increase of the German people's number 
before the War, the question of supplying the daily bread 
stepped into the foreground of all political and economic 
thought and activity in a more and more acute manner. 
Unfortunately, one could not make up one's mind to arrive 
at the only correct solution, but believed that one could 
reach the goal in a cheaper way. As soon as one renounced 
gaining new territory and, instead, entangled oneself in the 
delusion of a world-wide economic conquest, the end was 
bound to lead to an industrialization that was as limitless as 
it was detrimental. 

The first consequence of gravest importance was the 
weakening of the peasant class. In the same measure in 
which the latter class diminished, the mass of the prole-, 



316 MEIN KAMPF 

tariat of the great cities grew more and more, till finally the 
balance was lost entirely. 

Now the sharp contrast between poor and rich became 
really apparent. Superabundance and misery now lived so 
dose together that the consequences of this could be and 
were bound to be necessarily very dreary. Distress and 
frequent unemployment began to play their game with 
people and left discontent and embitterment as a memory 
behind them. The consequence of this seemed to be the 
political class split. Thus, with all economic prosperity, 
discontent nevertheless became greater and deeper, and 
it even went so far that the conviction, 'it can no longer go 
on like this,' became a general one, without people forming 
or being able to form a definite idea of what should perhaps 
have come. 

These were the typical symptoms of a deep discontent 
which tried to express itself in such a manner. 

But worse than this were other consequential symptoms 
Which the economization of the nation brought with it. 

In the measure in which business rose to become the de* 
termining master of the State, money became the god whom 
now everybody had to serve and to worship. Now the 
celestial gods were put more and more into a corner as 
outmoded and old-fashioned, and instead of to them, in- 
cense was offered to the idol of mammon. A truly evil 
degeneration thus set in, especially evil for the reason that 
this took place at a time when the nation, more than ever, 
would probably need the highest heroic conviction at a 
threatening critical hour; Germany had to be prepared with 
the help of the sword to stand up some day for her attempt 
to secure her daily bread by way of a 'peaceful economic 
work.' 

Unfortunately, the domination of money was sanctioned 
also by that authority which should have resisted it most 
of all: His Majesty the Kaiser acted unluckily when he 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 317 

drew the aristocracy particularly into the orbit of the new 
fiscal capital. Here, of course, one has to admit to his 
credit that in this respect unfortunately even Bismarck did 
not recognize the impending danger. With this, however, 
the ideal virtues had practically stepped back behind the 
value of money, for it was obvious that once one had 
started out on such a way, the nobility of the sword would 
very shortly have to take its place behind the aristocracy 

Attacks on the German nobility were to remain character- 
istic of National Socialism. Among nationalists, the princes 
were reproached for their poor war record. More generally, 
feeling waxed strong against the caste on social and economic 
grounds. Even the Center Party struck noblemen off its list 
of candidates a revolutionary action of which it was to re- 
pent later. The question concerning what disposition was to 
be made of the fortunes of the princes rocked German politics 
for years, leading eventually to a referendum which cut across 
all party alignments. Hitler's criticism seems to have been 
based primarily on intermarriages between the scions of noble 
houses and Jewish maidens. Such alliances were, as a matter 
of fact, common, many dating back to Napoleonic times. 
Anyone who takes the trouble to study the dedications of 
memoirs that appeared after the middle of the nineteenth 
century will find that in a great many instances this rule ap- 
plies: the nobler the author, the more certain he is to boast a 
Jewish grandmother. The late eighteenth century period of 
Lessing's Nathan der Wcisc was characterized by the 
homage paid to brilliant and beautiful Jewish women. Some 
of the marriages were, of course, based on money, but it must 
be added that the Jews brought from Vienna and Frankfort a 
culture superior to any that then existed in northeast Germany. 

The most voluminous Nazi critic of the German nobility is, 
however, R. Walther Darrfe, Hitler's Minister of Agriculture. 
Born in the Argentine and said to have specialized in veterinary 
science, Darr6 is above all the author of Neuadel aus Blut und 
Boden. He summarizes the faults of the princes as these have 



318 MEIN KAMPF 

of finance. Financial operations succeed more easily thtin 
battles. Also, it was no longer inviting now for the real 
hero or statesman to be brought into contact with the next- 
best Jew banker, so that the really meritorious man could 
no longer have an interest in the bestowal of such cheap 
decorations, but refused them with thanks as far as he was 
concerned. This development was profoundly saddening 
also from the point of view of blood ; the nobility lost more 

long since been chalked up by Lagarde, Langbehn, Treitschke, 
and others. Then he attributes most of the blame to Charle- 
magne, who because the fact that he favored Roman law and 
custom proved that he 'no longer possessed a sense of the im- 
portance of the German nobility, by reason of the fact that he 
was deficient in the heritage of German blood, 1 The battle of 
Verden (782) was, he thinks, the deciding point. For there 
Charlemagne defeated the * Saxon nobles.' From that time 
on, 'a Christian nobility is dominant in Germany, formed for 
the most part of Prankish noblemen-officials, whose blood was 
of dubious purity in the Germanic sense, though in the course 
of time . . . this was replaced by or improved by better blood. 
But this history of the development of the German Christian 
nobility out of the Prankish noblemen-official caste is very 
basically the cause why, in contradistinction to the heathen 
Germanic nobility, it no longer acts as a leadership embedded 
in the people, but as a caste set apart by itself above the 
German people a caste which was dissolved only after the 
Crusades.' (Dane's diction and syntax retain certain veter- 
inarian characteristics.) 

How, then, is the situation to be remedied? In the Vdlkischer 
Bcobachter (1923) Darr proposed the establishment of Zucht- 
ivarten that is, offices for breeding control whose duty it 
would be to keep records of German breeding. German girls 
were to be divided into four classes: the ten per cent shown by 
inspectors to have the best German blood were to be set apart 
as the group from which the 'new German nobility* might 
freely choose ; the rest of those girls against whose blood streams 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 319 

and more the racial presumption for its existence. For a 
greater part the designation 'non-nobility* would have 
been far more suitable. 

A symptom of serious economic decay was the slow ex- 
tinction of the personal right of possession and the gradual 
handing-over of the entire economy into the possession of stock- 
holders' companies. 

Only with this had labor truly sunk to the level of an 
object of speculation of unscrupulous hagglers; but the 

nothing important could be said were also to be within the 
'new nobleman's' purview, provided he could obtain the 
Zuchtwarfs permission to wed with one of them; the group 
against which pertinent criticism could be advanced were to 
be free to marry, provided they were sterilized in advance; 
and those unfortunates whose blood proved to be beneath 
contempt were to be held away from the altar under all cir- 
cumstances. To these ideas Darr6 has often returned, particu- 
larly in the famous seventh chapter of Neuadel aus Blut und 
Boden, in which he attempts to apply the laws of breeding to 
the German people. Here also is the often quoted passage in 
which he maintains that an illegitimate child of 'good blood' 
is to be ranked higher than a legitimate child of 'bad blood.' 
The distinction is of importance, since girls of 'bad blood' are 
no longer permitted to marry peasants whom the law permits 
to inherit land. 

How much of this theory has been put into practice cannot 
be determined. The most important of the published decrees 
are the sterilization laws. No figures on the total number of 
operations are available, nor is there any certainty that 
'feeble-mindedness' has been the major argument resorted to. 
Physicians recently employed in German hospitals estimate 
that the total number of operations since 1933 the law was 
decreed during July of that year exceed 200,000. migrt 
authorities whose veracity there is no reason to doubt insist 
that a good portion of these sterilizations were carried out for 
racial or political reasons. Some Catholic physicians have been 



320 MEIN KAMPF 

alienation of property from the employee, however, was 
now increased ad infinitum. The stock exchange began to 
triumph and proceeded to take slowly but gradually the 
life of the nation in its charge and control. 

The internationalization of German economic life had 
been introduced even before the War by the roundabout 
way of the stock issues. Indeed, one part of German indus- 
try still tried to guard itself with determination against this 
fate; but then, in turn, it fell victim to the combined attack 



removed from their positions for unwillingness to enforce the 
law. (Cf. also Nazi Germany: Its Women and Family Life, by 
Clifford Kirkpatrick.) 

In addition the 'new nobility* is in process of formation. 
The most important caste is formed by the S.S. the black- 
garbed Schutzstaffd (Safety Staff) commanded by Himmler; 
and this is now governed by a rigid marital code. The Nttrn- 
berg Laws on Race and Citizenship, passed in 1935, provide 
(Articles I and 2 of Section II): 'Marriages between Jews and 
subjects of German or kindred blood are forbidden. Marriages 
contracted despite this law are invalid, even if they be con- 
cluded abroad in order to circumvent this law. . . . Extra- 
marital relations between Jews and subjects of German or 
kindred blood are forbidden.' In addition, certain 'experi- 
ments' in breeding have been conducted. 

Finally it may be added that the most famous recruit to 
National Socialism from the ranks of the German nobility is 
Prince August Wilhelm, fourth son of the ex-Kaiser. He was 
a familiar addendum to Nazi rallies prior to the Machtcr- 
greifung (seizure of power). But during the 'blood purge' of 
1934 he was suddenly ordered by General Goering to take a 
holiday in Switzerland, with which request he conformed 
without delay. During the 'crisis' that developed in 1938 out 
of Hitler's relations with the Reichswehr, the ex-Crown 
Prince was despatched on a similar excursion into the Swiss 
Alps. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 321 

of greedy capital which fought this battle especially with 
the aid of its faithful comrade, the Marxist movement. 

The continued war against the German 'heavy industry* 
was the visible beginning of the German economy's inter- 
nationalization, aimed at by Marxism's victory in the Rev- 
olution. While I am writing this, the general attack against 
the German State Railways, which is now handed over to 
the international capital, has finally been successful. With 
this the 'international' Social Democracy has again 
reached one of its high objectives. 

How far one had succeeded in this 'economization' of the 
German people is probably most visible from the fact that 
finally after the War one of the leading heads of German 
industry, and above all, German trade, was able to express 
the opinion that economy as such would be in a position to 
re-erect Germany, nonsense which was dished up in a very 
moment when France again based instruction in her schools 
primarily on the humanistic principles, in order to prevent 
the opinion that the nation and the State owed their exist- 
ence to business and not to eternally ideal values. The 
remark which in those days a Stinnes gave the world caused 

After the platform of the Social Democratic Party had be- 
come ' reformist ' in character, attention was devoted primarily 
to the question: 'What industries are ripe for socialization?' 
When the War was over, two commissions were appointed by 
the Reich government to look into the matter. The principal 
result was a theoretical decision that the coal industry ought 
to be socialized. Nothing else was accomplished, unless the 
law establishing 'industrial workers' councils' be considered 
an advance. Under the Dawes Plan, the German Railroads 
were organized into a separate 'company' (Reichsbahn- 
GeseUschaft) in the management of which the Reparations 
Commission had a share. The idea was to collect reparations 
money from the proceeds of the railroads, which remained, 
however, the property of the Reich. 



322 MEIN KAMPF 

the most unbelievable confusion; because it was taken up 
immediately in order to become, with marvelous speed, the 
leit-motiv of all quacks and prattlers whom Heaven had let 
loose over Germany in the capacity of 'statesmen' since 
the Revolution. 



One of the most evil symptoms of decay in pre-War Germany 
was the constant spreading of half measures in all and every- 
thing. It is always the consequence of one's own uncer- 
tainty about some affair as well as of a cowardice resulting 
from these and other reasons. This disease is promoted 
further by education. 

German education before the War was afflicted with an 
extremely great number of weaknesses. Its intention was 
cut out, in a very one-sided manner, for the purpose of 
breeding pure 'knowledge'; it was orientated less towards 
'abilities,' and far less emphasis was put on the cultivation 
of character in the individual (as far as this is at all pos- 
sible!), very little on the promotion of the joy of accepting 

Compare Spengler (Zucht oder Bildung?): 'First comes con- 
duct, and then knowledge. But as a nation we are not at all 
aware of what conduct is, and we have had far too much 
"education." We have been crammed full of knowledge that 
has no bearing on life, which is purposeless and directionless, 
by indefatigable teachers unable to propose to themselves any 
other task. But it is one thing to be pedantic, and another to 
possess prudence, knowledge of life, and experience in the ways 
of the world. ... I would place Latin in the foreground, even 
today. Germany owes to the thorough training in Latin af- 
forded by its gymnasia during the past century more than it 
realizes. To that training it owes its intellectual discipline, 
its talent for organization, and its progress in technology. 1 
Spengler adds, in prophetic words, that teaching history and 
'educting the people politically' are one and the same thing. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 323 

responsibility, and none at all on the training of will power 
and determination. Its results were really not the strong 
man, but rather the pliable 'know-all/ as which we Ger- 
mans were generally looked upon before the War and were 
esteemed accordingly. One liked the German, as he was 
very useful, but one respected him too little, just in conse- 
quence of his weakness of will. Not without reason was it 
above all he, who of all people most easily lost his nation- 
ality and his fatherland. The nice proverb, ' M it dem Hute in 
der Hand komnti man durch das ganze Land' [with one's hat 
in one's hand one can go through the whole land], says all 
there is to say. 

This pliability became really disastrous, however, when 
it determined the forms with which alone one was per- 
mitted to approach the monarch ; that means, never to con- 
tradict him, but to agree to all and everything that His 
Majesty pleases to ordain. The free dignity of man was 
most needed just in this very place, if otherwise the mon- 
archistic institution was not to perish some day just because 
of this cringing; for it was cringing and nothing else, and 
only to miserable cringers and sneaks, in short, to the whole 
decadent pack which has always felt at home around the 
highest thrones more than the honorable, decent, and hon- 
est souls, this can pass for the only given form of contact 
with the wearers of a crown. These 'most humble 9 crea- 
tures, however, with all humility towards their master and 
bread-provider, have forever demonstrated their greatest 
impudence towards the other part of mankind, and most of 
all when it pleased them to have the cheek to present them- 
selves as solely 'monarchistic' to the other sinners; a gen- 
uine impudence which only such a titled or untitled maw- 
worm can exhibit. For in truth these people have been the 
gravediggers of the monarchy and especially of the mon- 
archistic idea. This is conceivable in no other way. A man 
who is ready to stand up for a cause will and can never be a 



324 MEIN KAMPF 

sneak and a characterless cringer. He who is really seri- 
ously concerned about the preservation and the furtherance 
of an institution will cling to it with the last fiber of his 
heart, and will never be able to get over the fact if evils of 
some kind become apparent in that institution, but such a 
man indeed will not cry this out publicly, as the democratic 
'friends' (?) of the monarchy did in exactly the same men- 
dacious manner, but he will most seriously warn and try 
to influence His Majesty in person, the bearer of the crown. 
Thereby he will not and must not take the point of view 
that His Majesty will nevertheless be at liberty to act 
according to his will, even if this may and is bound to lead 
to disaster, but in such a case he will have to protect the 
monarchy against the monarch, and this at any risk. For, 
if the value of this institution were to be found in the per- 
son of the monarch who happens to reign at the time in- 
volved, then this would be the worst institution conceiv- 
able as a whole, for only in the rarest cases are the monarchs 
the 61ite of wisdom and reason, or even of character, as one 
likes to describe them. Only the professional cringers and 
sneaks believe this, but all straightforward people and 
these are nevertheless still the most valuable individuals of 
the State will feel repulsed by the representation of such 
an absurd opinion. For them history is only history, and 
truth is truth, even if the parties involved are monarchs. 
No, the fortune to possess a great monarch in the person of 
a great man falls only so rarely to the share of the people 
that they have to be content if the malice of Fate at least 
abstains from making the very worst mistake. 

Thus the value and the importance of the monarchistic 
idea cannot lie in the person of the monarch himself, except 
Heaven resolves to place the crown on the temples of an 
heroic genius like Frederick the Great or of a wise character 
like Wilhelm I. This happens once in the course of cen- 
turies, and hardly more often. For the rest, however, the 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 325 

idea takes precedence of the person, since the meaning of 
this arrangement lies exclusively in this institution itself. 
But with this the monarch himself falls into the circle of 
service. Now he, too, is only a wheel in this work, and in 
this capacity he is obligated to the work. He, too, has now 
to submit to the higher end, and 'monarchist' is no longer 
he who silently lets the bearer of the crown sin against him- 
self, but he who prevents this. If it were different, not even 
the dethronement of an obviously mentally deranged prince 
would be permissible, if the meaning were not found in the 
idea, but in the ' sacred * person at any price, 
t Today it is really necessary to put this down, as recently 



These remarks are, in view of much that has been entered 
into the ledger since 1923, a fairly beguiling temptation to be 
retrospective. The relationships between Hitler and Wilhelm 
II are worth studying for the light they throw on German 
psychology. In both cases oratorical talent was used to flutter 
the dovecotes in the majority of European capitals. Both were 
disciples of Chamberlain, and both believed firmly in the 
inevitable 'war of races. 1 God was with Wilhelm as he is with 
Hitler. Under the old regime, there was Prince Eulenberg; 
under the new there is Rudolf Hess. The court pianist tradi- 
tion survived into the Third Reich. The craving to be re- 
ceived into British society has endured, together with the same 
inability to 'arrive. 1 Before the War, naval officers preparing 
to receive the Kaiser on a tour of inspection, were surprised 
to find that a lofty pedestal had been erected, to the top of 
which a staircase led. The riddle was solved when Wilhelm 
ascended to that lofty perch and talked down to his dear navy. 
In 1 935 1 a similar pedestal was constructed for the Niirnberg 
Party Conference. Hitler mounted, and talked down to his 
beloved S.A. The Kaiser's picture, in days gone by, was 
ubiquitous; Hitler's is now, if possible, still more universal. 
But to date the fondness for uniforms has apparently been 
bequeathed to General Goering. 



326 MEIN KAMPF 

more and more of those types begin again to emerge from 
obscurity to whose wretched attitude the collapse of the 
monarchy must be ascribed not in least degree. With a 
certain naive imperturbability, these people now talk again 
only of 'their' king (whom, however, they had nevertheless 
left in the lurch in the most wretched manner, in the criti- 
cal hour only a few years ago), and they begin to describe 
as a bad German every man who is not willing to tune in 
with their mendacious tirades, while in truth these are 
exactly the same poltroons who in the year 1918 dispersed 
and rushed away from each and every red arm badge, who 
let their king be king, immediately exchanged halberd for 
the walking stick, donned neutral neckties, and disap- 
peared, as peaceful 'citizens,' actually without leaving a 
trace. At that time they had disappeared at one blow, these 
royal champions, and only after the revolutionary hurricane 
had calmed down, thanks to the activity of the others, so 
that one could again blare out into the air one's ' Hail to the 
King, Hail,' these 'servants' and 'councillors' of the crown 
began again to emerge cautiously. But now they are all 
here, and they cast their eyes longingly backwards towards 
the fleshpots of Egypt, they hardly can restrain themselves 
for loyalty towards the king and for eagerness to accomplish 
great feats, till perhaps the first red arm badge will some 
day appear again, and the ghostly crowd of the parties inter- 
ested in the monarchy bolts again, like mice before the cat. 

If the monarchs themselves were not guilty of these 
things, one could only pity them most heartily because of 
their defenders of today. But they can be convinced, at 
any rate, that with such knights one loses perhaps one's 
throne, but that one does not fight for crowns. 

This devotion, however, was a fault of our entire educa- 
tion, a fault which took its revenge now in this place in an 
especially terrible manner. 

For in consequence of this, these wretched types were 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 387 

able to hold their ground at all courts and to undermine 
gradually the foundations of the monarchy. But when the 
building then finally began to shake, they were blown away 
as it were and disappeared. Naturally: cringers and flunk- 
ies do not let themselves be killed for their master. That 
the monarchs never know this and on principle fail to learn 
this has been their doom of old. 



One of the worst symptoms of decay was the increasing cow- 
ardice towards responsibility as well as the half-heartedness in 
all things resulting from it. 

t The starting-point of this plague, however, lies with us 
to a great part in the purest cultivation of irresponsibility in 
our parliamentary institution: unfortunately, this plague 
invaded slowly also the remaining domains of life, most of 
all that of the State. Everywhere one began to evade re- 
sponsibility and for this reason one preferred to take up 
half and insufficient measures; because by their application 
the measure of the responsibility to be borne personally 
seems to be screwed down to the smallest size. 

One need only look at the attitude of the various govern- 
ments towards a series of really detrimental symptoms of 
our public life, and one will easily recognize the terrible 
meaning of this general half-heartedness and cowardice 
towards responsibility.-^ 



Here again Spengler is interesting. 'We must set to work 
here and now,' he declared in Der Sumpf, 'relentlessly finding 
the sore on the German body, if a long-drawn-out, creeping 
illness is to be cured.' But Spengler detected the evil, not in 
the parliamentary system as such, or even in Marxism, but 
rather in the mechanics of party life. Parties, he contended, 
became ends in themselves, and lost all relation to the bane 
central concerns of the nation. 



328 MEIN KAMPF 

I take up only a few cases out of the vast number which 
is at our disposal: 

Just in journalistic circles one usually prefers to call the 
press a 'great power' of the State. As a matter of fact its 
importance is truly enormous. It cannot be overestimated ; 
it is indeed actually the continuation of the education of 
youth in advanced age. 

t Thereby one can divide the readers as a whole into three 
groups: 

First, those who believe everything they read; 

Secondly, those who no longer believe anything; 

Thirdly, those who critically examine what they have 
read and judge accordingly. 

The first group is numerically by far the greatest. It con- 
sists of the great masses of the people and therefore repre- 
sents the mentally simplest part of the nation. But it can- 
not at all be expressed in terms of professions, but, at the 
utmost, in general grades of intelligence. To it belong all 
those to whom independent thinking is neither inborn nor 
instilled by education, and who, partly through inability and 
partly through incompetence, believe everything that is 
put before them printed in black on white. Also those lazy- 
bones belong to it who are well able to think for themselves, 
but who, out of sheer mental inertia, gratefully pick up 
anything that someone else has thought before, with the 
modest assumption that the latter will probably have exer- 
cised the right kind of effort. Now with all these people, 
who represent the great masses, the influence of the press 
will be enormous. They are not in a position, or they do 
not wish personally, to examine what is offered to them so 
that their entire attitude towards all current problems can 
be led back almost exclusively to the outward influence of 
others. This may be of advantage in case their enlighten- 
ment is carried out by a sincere and truth-loving party, but 
it is evil as soon as scoundrels or liars do this. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 329 

The second group is much smaller even in number. It is 
composed of the greater part of elements which first be- 
longed to the first group, and who after long and bitter dis- 
appointments changed over to the contrary and believe no 
longer in anything at all that comes in the form of print 
before their eyes. They hate every newspaper; either they 
do not read it at all or they are annoyed at the contents 
without exception, since in their opinion it is composed 
only of lies and untruths. These people are very difficult to 
handle, as they will also always face the truth mistrustingly. 
Therefore they are lost to every positive work. 

The third group finally is by far the smallest; it consists 
of the mentally truly fine heads whom natural gifts and 
education have taught to think independently, who try to 
form a judgment of their own about everything, and who 
submit most thoroughly everything they have read to an 
examination and further development of their own. They 
will not place a newspaper before their eyes without making 
their brains co-operate continuously, and then Mr. Author 
will not easily hold his own. The journalists therefore like 
such a reader only with reserve. 

For this third group, indeed, the nonsense which a news- 
paper may scribble together is of little danger or impor- 
tance. They have accustomed themselves anyhow in the 
course of their lifetime to see as a rule in every journalist a 
scoundrel who tells the truth only occasionally. Unfortu- 
nately, however, the importance of these excellent people 
lies only in their intelligence and not in their number; a mis- 
fortune in a time in which wisdom is nothing and the major- 
ity everything. Today, where the ballot of the masses de- 
cides, the decisive value lies with the most numerous group 
and this is the first one: the crowd of the simple ones and 
the credulous.** 

It is in the paramount interest of the State and the na- 
tion to prevent these people from falling into the hands ot 



330 MEIN KAMPF 

evil, ignorant, or even malevolent educators. The State, 
therefore, has the duty to supervise their education and to 
prevent any nuisance. Therefore, it has to watch especially 
the press, for its influence is by far the strongest and most 
penetrating on these people, as it is applied not temporarily 
but permanently. In the persistent and eternal repetition 
of this instruction lies its entire unheard-of importance. 
Therefore, if in any place at all, the State must not forget 
that just in here all means must serve an end ; it must not let 
itself be misled by the boast of a so-called ' freedom of the 
press/ and must not be persuaded to fail in its duty and to 
put before the nation the food that it needs and that is good 
for it; it must assure itself with ruthless determination of 
this means for educating the people and to put into the 
service of the State and the nation. 

But what food was it that the German press of the pre- 
War time put before these people? Was it not the worst 
conceivable poison? Was not the worst kind of pacifism 
inoculated into the heart of our people, at a time when the 
rest of the world was about to throttle Germany slowly but 
surely? Did not this press, even in times of peace, instill 
into the brains of the people doubts about the rights of their 
own State, in order to restrict it from the beginning in the 
choice of the means for its defense? Was it not the German 
press which knew how to make palatable to our people the 
nonsense of 'Western Democracy/ till finally, captured by 
all these enthusiastic tirades, it thought that it could en- 
trust its future to a League of Nations? Did it not help in 
educating our people towards a wretched immorality? Did 
it not ridicule morals and customs, interpreting them as 
being old-fashioned and humdrum, till finally our people 
actually became 'modern'? Did it not, by continued 
attack, undermine the fundamentals of State authority for 
so long till a single blow was sufficient to cause the collapse 
of this building? Did it not once fight against every mani- 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 331 

festation of the will to give to the State what belongs to it, 
did it not fight with all means, did it not disparage the 
army by continued criticism, did it not sabotage general 
conscription, and did it not solicit the refusal of military 
credits, etc., till the results could not fail to arrive? 

The activity of the so-called liberal press was the work of 
gravediggers for the German people and the German Reich. 
One can pass by in silence the Marxist papers of lies; to 
them lying is as necessary to their life as catching mice is to 
the cat; but its task is only to break the people's folkish and 
national spine, in order to make it ripe for the yoke of slav- 
ery of international capital and its masters, the Jews. 

But what did the State do against this mass poisoning 
of the nation? Nothing, actually nothing. A few ridiculous 
decrees, a few fines against too great villainies, and that 
was all. But instead, one hoped perhaps to gain the favor of 
this pest by bringing forth flatteries and acknowledgments 
of the 'value' of the press, its 'importance,' its 'educational 
mission,' and the other nonsense of that kind, which the 
Jews, slyly smiling, received and accepted with cunning 
thanks. 

The cause for this miserable failure, however, was not 
the non-recognition of the danger but rather a cowardice, 
crying to Heaven, and the half-heartedness of all resolu- 
tions and measures, born out of it. Nobody had the cour- 
age to take up thoroughgoing radical means, but here, as 
everywhere else, one bungled about with half prescriptions, 
and, instead of delivering the coup de grdce, one perhaps 
only irritated the viper, with the result that not only every- 
thing remained as it had been, but that, on the contrary, 
the power of the institution to be fought increased from 
year to year. 

The German government's defensive against the press 
horde, slowly corrupting the nation, of chiefly Jewish origin 
and of Jewish journals, was without a straight line, without 



332 MEIN KAMPF 

determination, but above all without any visible goal. Here 
the brains of the privy councillors gave out completely, in 
the estimation of the importance of this fight as well as 
in the choice of the means, and the establishment of a clear 
plan. Planlessly one doctored about; at a time when one 
had been bitten too much one locked up such a journalistic 
viper for a few weeks or months, but one left the snake's 
nest as such well alone. 

This was partly, of course, also the consequence of the 
infinitely sly tactics of Jewry on the one hand and of a 
stupidity or harmlessness typical amongst privy councillors 
on the other. The Jew was much too clever to permit his 
entire press to be attacked uniformly. No, the purpose of 
a part of it was to cover up. While the Marxist papers, in 
the meanest way, went to battle against everything that 

The 'Jewish press 1 was a slogan then, as it has since been in 
other lands. As a matter of fact, a few of the ablest 'liberal' 
journals in Germany were edited by Jews. Nevertheless, when 
one views the press of the country as a whole, the Jewish in- 
fluence appears to have been limited to the 'democratic' news- 
papers of Berlin and Frankfort. More emotion was aroused by 
a number of vigorous Jewish opposition journalists of an in- 
dependent stamp Maximilian Harden, Kurt Eisner, L. 
Schwarzschild, Georg Bernhard. 

Since 1933 the German press has been completely 'subordi- 
nated' (gleichgeschaltet). The first to go were the labor news- 
papers, not the Marxist ones merely, but particularly those 
of the trade unions. Der Deutsche the paper which Dr. Hein- 
rich Brflning founded and which he once edited had been 
the organ of the Christian unions; now it was transformed 
into the daily mouthpiece of Dr. Robert Ley, leader of the 
Arbeitsfront (Labor Front). Oddly enough the Jewish-owned 
journals were the ones to retain longest a measure of inde- 
pendence, because they had been sold in time to powerful 
industrial organizations. The Frankfurter Zcitung, for ex- 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 333 

may be sacred to man, while they attacked State and gov- 
ernment in the most infamous manner and set great parts of 
the people by the ears, the bourgeois democratic Jewish 
papers knew how to give themselves the air of the well- 
known 'objectivity'; they carefully avoided all strong 
language, well knowing that all empty-heads are able to 
judge all things only according to their appearance and that 
they never have the ability to penetrate into the interior, 
so that for them the value of a cause is judged by the ex- 
terior instead of by the contents ; a human weakness to which 
they fortunately owe also the attention they receive. 

For these people the Frankfurter Zeitung was and is in- 
deed the incorporation of all decency; for it never employs 



ample, had a fairy godmother in I. G. Farben, the chemical 
trust. Religious dailies, many of which had been strong and 
influential concerns, were thoroughly curbed. The editors 
were fired in lots of a dozen. What remained were journalistic 
torsos, which should have been permitted to die a respectable 
death. For a while Colonel Franz von Papen held a jittery 
protecting hand over the Catholic Germania of Berlin, once 
the organ to which all had turned for information concerning 
the views of the powerful Center Party. Then at last the 
miserable remnant of former glories was snuffed out in 1938. 
The Vienna Reichspost, organ of Dollfuss and Schuschnigg, 
collapsed far more rapidly. The provincial newspapers became 
mere reprints of hand-outs from the Propaganda Office. 

The press is the Nazi Party's greatest source of income, 
being a monopoly of tremendous dimensions. The Volkische 
Beobachter is the official paper, but almost every Nazi chieftain 
has a journal peculiarly his own. Particular value is attached 
to the illustrated weeklies, many of which are highly effective 
propaganda media. Every Nazi event is a photographers* 
holiday. During a single Rosenberg speech in 1933, official 
cameramen took 456 flashlight pictures. The Party also main- 
tains a considerable number of newspapers in foreign countries. 



334 MEIN KAMPF 

crude expressions, it rejects all physical brutality, and 
always appeals to fight with 'spiritual' means which, 
strangely enough, is nearest to the heart of just the most 
unintelligent people. This is a result of our semi-education 
which detaches the people from the instinct of nature, 
pumps a certain knowledge into them without being able 
to lead them to the ultimate realization, as for this purpose 
industry and good will alone are not useful, but the neces- 
sary reason has to be present, and not only that, it has to 
be inborn. The ultimate realization, however, is always 
only the understanding of the causes of the instinct; that 
means, man will then never fall into the lunacy of believing 
that he has now really advanced to the position of master 
and lord of Nature, which the conceit of a semi-education 
brings about so easily, but he will then understand all the 
more the fundamental necessity of the working of Nature, 
and he will realize how far also his existence is subjected 
to these laws of the eternal battle and struggle in an up- 
ward direction. We will then feel that, in a world in which 
the planets circle around the sun, where moons ride around 
planets, where power alone is always the master of weakness 
and forces it into obedient service or else breaks it, there 
can be no special laws valid for man. For him also the 
eternal principles of this ultimate wisdom apply. He can 
try to comprehend them, but he will never be able to free 
himself from them. 

But it is just for our intellectual demi-monde that the 
Jew writes his so-called intellectual press. For them the 

The Berliner Tageblatt, edited by Theodor Wolff, was the 
paper the Nazis most hated, excepting the much less influential 
Gerade Weg, of Munich. On the day the Party came to power, 
offices of the second journal were smashed to bits and the editor 
Dr. Fritz Gerlich was jailed. He was eventually executed. 
Theodor Wolff escaped from Germany in 1933. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 335 

Frankfurter Zeitung and the Berliner TageblaU are made, 
for them their tone is tuned, and on them finally they exer- 
cise their influence. By avoiding most carefully all forms 
seeming outwardly rude, they nevertheless pour the poison 
from other vessels into the hearts of their readers. Under a 
geseires [Yiddish; from the Hebrew gezera, meaning unnec- 
essary talk] of nice sounds and phrases they lull them into 
the faith as though really pure science or even morality were 
the driving forces behind their activity, while in reality it is 
only the ingenious and cunning art of stealing in this man- 
ner from the hand of the enemy the weapon against the 
press. For while some are dripping with decency, all weak 
heads are the more inclined to believe that with the others 
it is a case of only minor excrescences, which, however, 
should never be allowed to lead to an infringement of the 
freedom of the press (as one calls this nuisance of unpunish- 
able lying to, and poisoning of, the people). Thus one shies 
from proceeding against this banditry, as one fears that in 
such a case one will immediately have the 'decent' press 
against oneself; a fear that is only too justified. For, as soon 
as one tries to proceed against one of these disgraceful 
papers, immediately all the others will take its side, but by 
no means perhaps in order to endorse its kind of fight, Heaven 
forbid ; only the principle of the freedom of the press and 
of public opinion are involved ; this alone has to be defended. 
But the strongest man weakens in the face of this clamor, 
since it comes from the mouth of only ' decent ' papers. . . . 
Thus the poison could penetrate into and work in the 
system of our people without hindrance and without the 
State having the power to master the disease. In the ridicu- 
lous and half-hearted means which it applied against it is 
shown the threatening decay of the Reich. For an institu- 
tion which is no longer determined to defend itself with all 
weapons practically gives itself up. Every half measure is 
then the visible symptom of internal decay which will 



336 MEIN KAMPF 

and must be followed, sooner or later, by external col- 
lapse. 

I believe that the present generation, rightly guided, 
will more easily overcome this danger. It has experienced 
several things which were able to strengthen the nerves of 
those who did not lose them altogether. Surely in the 
future, the Jew will certainly raise an enormous clamor in 
his newspapers, once the hand is put on his favorite nest 
and an end is made of the misuse of the press, and once 
also this instrument of education is put into the service of 
the State and is no longer left in the hand of strangers and 
enemies of the people. But I also believe that this will 
annoy us younger ones less than it once did our fathers. 
A 30 cm. shell has always hissed more than a thousand 
Jewish newspaper vipers; therefore let them hiss. 



t A further example for the half-heartedness and the weak- 
ness of the leading authority in pre-War Germany in the 
most important vital questions of the nation can be the 
following: Parallel with the political and moral infection 
of the people went a no less terrible poisoning of the health 
of the national body. Syphilis began to spread more and 
more, especially in the great cities, while tuberculosis was 
steadily reaping its harvest of death almost throughout the 
entire country. 
Although in both cases the consequences for the nation 

This extensive philippic against syphilis is among the most 
interesting passages in Mein Kampf. Much medical or pseudo- 
medical speculation has been built up round about it, with 
which we do not associate ourselves. The essential point is 
that syphilis and Rassenschande (i.e., cohabitation between a 
German and a person of impure blood) are placed on the same 
level. The first can be cured, however. The second i irre- 
parable. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 337 

were terrible, one could no longer bring oneself to take 
decisive measures. 

Towards syphilis especially one can describe the attitude 
of the national and State authority only with the words, 
complete capitulation. If one wanted to fight it seriously, 
one had to take quite different steps than was actually the 
case. The invention of a remedy of a questionable character 
as well as the commercial exploitation of the latter are able 
to help but little with this plague. Also here only the fight 
against the causes should be considered and not the aboli- 
tion of the symptoms. The cause, however, lies primarily 
in our prostitution of love. Even if the result of this were 
not this terrible disease, yet it would still be of deepest 
danger for the people, for the moral devastation which this 
depravity brings with it are sufficient to destroy a people 
slowly but surely. The Judaization of our spiritual life and 
the mammonization [sic] of our mating impulse sooner or 
later befouls our entire new generation, for instead of vig- 
orous children of natural feeling, only the miserable speci- 
mens of financial expedience come forth. For this becomes 
more and more the basis and the only prerequisite for our 
marriages. Love, however, finds an outlet somewhere else. 

Naturally, one can also here mock Nature for a certain 
time, but the revenge will not fail to appear, it only will 
appear later, or rather, it is often recognized too late by 
the people. 

However, how devastating are the consequences of a 
continued disregard of the natural presuppositions for mar- 
riage can be demonstrated by our aristocracy. Here one 
is presented with the results of a propagation which has 
been based for one part on purely social compulsion, for 
the other on financial reasons. The one leads to weakening 
altogether, the other to blood poisoning, as now every 
department-store Jewess is considered suitable to augment 
the offspring of 'His Highness. 9 The latter then looks like 



131 MEIN KAMPF 

it. In both cases complete degeneration is the consequence. 

Our 'middle class 9 takes pains today to walk the same 
way and it will end at the same goal. 

With indifferent haste one tries to pass by disagreeable 
truths, as though by such an attitude one could make these 
things undone. No, the fact that the population of our big 
cities is prostituted more and more in its love life, and that 
just through this it falls victim to syphilis in more and 
wider circles, cannot just be abolished by denying it; it is 
there. The most obvious results of this mass contagion 
can be found on the one hand in the lunatic asylums, and 
on the other, unfortunately, in our children. These es- 
pecially are the sad certificates of misery of the irresistibly 
advancing tainting of our sexual life; in the diseases of the 
children the vices of the parents are revealed. 

Now there are different ways to reconcile oneself with 
this disagreeable, even terrible fact: some do not see any- 
thing at all, or rather they do not want to see anything: 
this is of course by far the most simple and cheapest 'atti- 
tude'; others wrap themselves in a saintly cloak of prudish- 
ness that is as ridiculous as it is also mendacious; they only 
talk of this entire domain as if it were a great sin, and, 
above all, in the presence of every sinner caught in the 
act, they express their deeply felt inner indignation in order 
then to close their eyes in pious disgust towards this vicious 
disease and to ask God (if possible after their own death) 
to rain fire and brimstone upon this Sodom and Gomorrah 
in order once again to make an elevating example of this 
disgraceful mankind ; a third group see very well the terrible 
consequences which this disease is bound to, and will, bring 
with it, but nevertheless they only shrug their shoulders, 
convinced that they can do nothing against this danger, 
anyhow, so that one has to let things go as they are going. 

All this is of course comfortable and simple, only one 
must not forget that a nation will fall victim to such inertia* 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 339 

The excuse that the other nations are no better off of 
course can hardly change anything In respect to the fact 
of their own decline, except perhaps that the feeling that 
others also meet with misfortune would bring for many a 
mitigation of their own pains. However, the question is 
then all the more which nation first and by itself is able 
to master this plague, and which nations cannot help per- 
ishing. But that is what matters in the end. This also is 
only a touchstone for the value of a race, and that race 
which does not pass the test will die and make room for 
races healthier or at least tougher and of greater resistance. 
For, since this question primarily concerns the coming gen- 
eration, it belongs to those of whom it is said, with terrible 
correctness, that the sins of the fathers are visited upon 
the tenth generation. 

But this is valid only for the sins against blood and race. 

The sin against the blood and the degradation of the race 
are the hereditary sin of this world and the end of a mankind 
surrendering to them. 

But how truly miserably did the Germany of pre-War 
times face just this one question. What was done in order 
to check the tainting of our young generation in the big 
cities? What was done to attack the infecting and mam- 
monization [sic] of our love life? What, in order to fight 
the resulting syphilization of our national body? 

The answer is most easily given by stating what should 
have been done. 

First, one should not be allowed to take this question 
too easily, but to understand that upon its solution will 
depend the happiness or the unhappiness of generations, 
nay, that it may be or even must be decisive for the entire 
future of our people. Such a realization, however, required 
ruthless measures and interventions. At the top of all re- 
flections the conviction should have been placed that first 
of all the attention of the entire nation has to be concen- 



340 MEIN KAMPF 

trated on this terrible danger, so that every single indi- 
vidual becomes conscious in his mind of the significance of 
this fight. One can bring obligations and burdens which 
are incisive, and sometimes hard to bear, to a general effec- 
tiveness only when, apart from compulsion, also the real- 
ization of the necessity of this activity is given to the 
individual. But this demands an enormous enlightenment 
to the exclusion of all current questions which have an 
otherwise deviating effect. 

In all cases which involve the fulfillment of apparently 
impossible demands or tasks, the entire attention of a people 
has to be united uniformly on this one question in such a 
manner as though indeed its existence or non-existence de- 
pended upon its solution. Only thus will one make a people 
willing and able to undertake truly great achievements 
and efforts. 

This principle is valid also for the individual, as far 
as he wishes to attain great goals. He, too, will be able 
to do this only in step-like sections. He, too, will then 
always have to unite his entire efforts on the reaching of 
a certain limited task, until this seems to be fulfilled and 
the marking of a new section can be undertaken. He who 
does not carry out the partition of the way to be conquered 
into single sections, and then tries to conquer them plan- 
fully with sharpest concentration of all forces, one by one, 
will never be able to arrive at the goal, but he will remain 
lying somewhere on the way, perhaps even by the side of it. 
This gradual approach to a goal by work is an art and it 
requires at a time the staking of actually the utmost energy 
in order to conquer the way, step by step. 

This is, therefore, the very first preliminary condition 
which is necessary for the attack on so difficult a part of 
the human way, the condition that the leadership succeeds 
in presenting to the masses of the people just that part of 
the goal which has to be reached, or, rather, which has to 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 341 

be fought for, as the one that is now solely and alone 
worthy of human attention, and upon the conquest of 
which everything depends. The great masses of the people, 
anyhow, can never see the whole way before them with- 
out getting tired and without despairing of the task. They 
will keep the goal before their eyes only to a certain extent, 
but they will be able to visualize the way only in small 
sections, similar to the wanderer who also knows and is 
aware of the end of his journey, but who overcomes the 
endless road better if he cuts it up into sections and now 
marches ahead towards each single one, as though this 
were the desired goal. Only thus he advances without 
despairing. 

Thus, by employing all propagandistic auxiliary means, 
one should have made the fight against syphilis appear as 
the task of the nation, not as one task among others. For 
this purpose one should have hammered into the people its 
evils as the most terrible misfortune in its full extent, and 
under application of all auxiliary measures, till the whole 
nation should have come to the conviction that upon the 
solution of this question really everything depends, future 
or doom. 

Only after such a preparation, carried out for years if 

To date the 'extensive propaganda* anent syphilis has not 
been one of the principal achievements of the Third Reich. 
In 1933 strong measures were taken to curb prostitution. 
Under the Republic, the Berlin Department of Health had 
taken the view that all the State could intelligently do was to 
control the health of the street- walker. The changes in the 
law resulted, however, in 40,000 new cases of syphilis within 
a few months (according to an official report). Recently there 
has been a tendency to control the effects of social disease by 
examining persons who wish to marry, especially if they seek a 
loan from the government in accordance with the laws provid- 
ing grants of aid to prospective bridegrooms. 



342 MEIN KAMPF 

necessary, will the attention, and with it also the determina- 
tion, of a whole people be awakened to such an extent that 
now one will be able to take very difficult and sacrificial 
measures without running the risk that one will not be 
understood or that one will suddenly be left in the lurch 
by the willingness of the masses. 

For, in order to attack this plague seriously, enormous 
sacrifices and works just as great are necessary. 

The fight against syphilis requires a fight against prosti- 
tution, against prejudices, old habits, against previous 
ideas, general opinions, amongst them last but not least, 
against the mendacious prudishness in certain circles, etc. 

The first condition for only the moral right to fight 
against these things is to make early marriage possible for 
the coming generation. In late marriages alone lies the 
compulsion for keeping an institution which, no matter 
how much one may turn and twist oneself, is and remains 
a disgrace to mankind, an institution which damned badly 
suits a being who otherwise in modesty likes to consider 
itself the 'image' of God. 

Prostitution is a disgrace to mankind, but one cannot 
abolish it by moral lectures, pious intentions, etc., but its 
limitation and its final elimination warrant the abolition 
of quite a number of preliminary conditions. But the first 
is and remains the creation of the possibility of early 
marriage, according to human nature, above all for the 
man; because the woman is here only the passive part, 
anyhow. 

However, how erring, even how incomprehensible the 
people have partly become today may be derived from the 
fact that one not seldom hears mothers of the so-called 
'better* society say that they are grateful to find a husband 
for their child who has 'already sown his wild oats/ etc. 
As in this direction there is in most cases less shortage than 
would be the case the other way round, the poor girl 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 343 

therefore will fortunately find such a de-horned Siegfried, 
and the children will be the visible result of such a 'sen- 
sible 1 marriage. If one considers that, apart from this, a 
restriction of propagation itself, as far as possible, takes 
place, so that Nature is barred from all choice, as now 
naturally every human being, no matter how miserable, 
has to be kept alive, there remains only the question why 
then such an institution still exists at all and what purpose 
it is supposed to have? Is this then not exactly the same 
as prostitution itself? Does then the duty towards poster- 
ity no longer play any r&amp;le at all? Or does one not realize 
with what curse one burdens oneself, towards children and 
children's children, by such a criminally careless manner 
in the guarding of the ultimate right of Nature and even 
of the ultimate obligation towards Nature? 

Thus the cultured people degenerate and perish gradually. 

Marriage also cannot be an end in itself, but has to 
serve the one greater aim, the propagation and preserva- 
tion of the species and the race. Only this is its meaning 
and its task. 

But if this is true, then its soundness can be measured 
only by the manner in which it fulfills this purpose. Evea 
for this reason, an early marriage is right, as it gives the 
young marriage still that force from which alone a healthy 
generation, capable of resisting, can ensue. Of course, to 
make this possible, quite a series of social conditions are 
necessary without which one cannot think of an early 
marriage. Therefore, the solution of this question, which 
is so small, cannot take place without incisive measures in 

Prior to 1925, the Republic had, it is true, been able to do 
very little towards solving the problem of housing. The end 
of the War not only brought the army back home, but also 
forced into the larger cities a constant stream of refugees from 
territories sundered from Germany by the peace treaties. 



344 MEIN KAMPF 

social regard. What importance must be attributed to 
these should be understood most of all in a time when the 
so-called 'social' republic, by its inability in the solution 
of the housing question alone, simply prevents numerous 
marriages and thus favors prostitution. 

The absurdity of our way of arranging salaries, which 
considers the question of the family and its support far 
too little, is also a reason which makes so many an early 
marriage impossible. 

Therefore, one can approach a real fight against prosti- 
tution only if, by a fundamental change of social condi- 
tions, earlier marriage than can take place now is made 



It is sometimes estimated that 1,000,000 persons migrated 
from the regions ceded to Poland. In addition the country 
was overrun with fugitives from Russia and the Baltic States. 
The government had no money; and during the period of in- 
flation the very sources from which revenue might have been 
obtained dried up. But as soon as the Dawes Plan went into 
effect, housing plans of vast dimensions got under way. During 
the four years beginning with 1925, Germany erected more 
homes than did any other European country in the same 
period. There was much argument concerning the character 
of the work done. Socialist municipal governments, often 
committed to family limitation, favored apartment houses; 
Catholic and Protestant agencies, which sought to promote 
'normal' family life, tried whenever possible to erect one- 
family houses. Sometimes, as in Cologne, the expenditures 
drew from critics the complaint that bankruptcy was inevitable. 
Under National Socialism, the trend has predominatingly 
been towards one-family housing. This has been aided by a 
marked tendency on the part of middle-class families to place 
their savings in real property. Yet there is no essential differ- 
ence between 1928 and 1935 in this regard, though such a build 
ing as the huge apartment-house erected in Neu-K6lln. 
Berlin, under the Republic would hardly be erected today. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 345 

generally possible. This is the very first preliminary con- 
dition for a solution of this question. 

In the second place, however, education and training 
have to eliminate quite a series of evils about which one 
hardly cares at all today. Above all, in our present-day 
education a balance between intellectual instruction and 
physical training has to take place. What today calls 
itself a gymnasium is an insult to the Greek example. With 
our education one has entirely forgotten that in the long 
run a healthy mind is able to dwell only in a healthy body. 
Especially when, with a few exceptions, one looks at the 
great masses of the people, this principle receives absolute 
validity. 

In pre-War Germany there was a time when one no 
longer cared for this truth. One simply went on sinning 
against the body, and one thought that in the one-sided 
training of the 'mind' one possessed a safe guaranty for 
the greatness of the nation. A mistake which began to 
avenge itself much sooner than one thought. It is no acci- 
dent that the bolshevistic wave found nowhere a better 
ground than in those places where a population, degener- 
ated by hunger and constant undernourishment, lives: in 
Central Germany, Saxony, and the Ruhr district. In all 
these districts, however, a serious resistance on the part 
of the so-called ' intelligentsia ' to this Jewish disease hardly 
takes place any longer for the simple reason that the in- 
telligentsia itself is physically completely degenerated, 
though less by reasons of distress than by reasons of edu- 
cation. The exclusively intellectual attitude of our edu- 
cation of the higher classes makes them unable in a 
time where not the mind but the fist decides even to 
preserve themselves, let alone to hold their ground. In 
physical deficiencies there lies not infrequently the first 
cause of personal cowardice. 

The exceeding stress on a purely intellectual training 



346 MEIN KAMPF 

and the neglect of physical training favor also in much 
too early youth the formation of sexual conceptions. The 
boy who, by sports and gymnastics, is brought to an iron- 
like inurement succumbs less to the need of sensual grati- 
fication than the stay-at-home who is fed exclusively on 
intellectual food. A reasonable education, however, must 
take this into consideration. Further, it must not forget 
that on the part of the healthy young man the expectations 
of the woman will be different than on the part of a pre- 
maturely corrupted weakling.^ 

Thus the entire education has to be directed towards 
employing the free time of the boy for the useful training 
of his body. He has no right to loaf about idly in these 
years, to make streets and movie theaters insecure, but 
after his daily work he has to steel and harden his young 
body so that life will not find him too soft some day. To 
get this under way and also to carry it out, to guide and 
to lead is the task of the education of youth, and not the 
exclusive infiltration of so-called wisdom. It has also to 
do away with the conception that the treatment of the 
body were the concern of each individual. There is no 
liberty to sin at the expense of posterity and, with it, of 
the race. 

Parallel with the training of the body, the fight against 
the poisoning of the soul has to set in. Our entire public 
life today resembles a hothouse of sexual conceptions and 
stimulants. One has only to look at the menus of our 
movie houses, vaudevilles, and theaters; and one can 
hardly deny that this is not the right kind of food, above 
all for youth. In shop windows and on billboards one 
works with the basest means in order to attract the atten- 
tion of the masses. That this is bound to lead to serious 
damage to youth is probably clear to everyone who has 
not lost the ability to imagine himself in the place of a 
youth's soul. This sensual sultry atmosphere leads to 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 347 

ideas and stimulations at a time when the boy ought not 
yet to have an understanding for such things. The result 
of this education can be studied in a not very enjoyable 
way with the youth of today. From the courtrooms events 
sometimes penetrate to the public which permit a horrible 
insight into the inner life of our fourteen- and fifteen-year- 
old youths. Who will wonder, therefore, that even in the 
circles of this age syphilis begins to seek its victims? And 
is it not a misery to see how so many physically weak, and 
also mentally corrupt, young men receive their initiation 
into marriage by a whore of the big cities? 

No, he who wants to attack prostitution must primarily 
help to abolish the mental presupposition for it. He has 
to clear away the filth of the moral contamination of the 
* culture' of our big cities, and this ruthlessly and without 

There is no doubt that one of the sources of Nazi strength 
lies in the sanity of its attitude towards youth as compared 
with the view taken on the whole by German Communism. 
This last had a baneful hedonistic core : the result of the 
fact that it stressed the rights of the masses far more effectively 
than it did their duties. A good many sound people turned to 
Hitlerism because they could not stomach such Communist 
demands as these : free contraceptives, family aid to unmarried 
lovers, and 'week-ends.' However arguable it may be that 
young people without money will not abstain from love rela- 
tionships, it is nevertheless a prevalent belief that society ia 
something more than just an institute for having a 'good time.' 
However sinister the ultimate objectives of the Nazis may be, 
there is no doubt that Hitler's soldier helpers have often in- 
culcated a healthier attitude towards life. 

Unfortunately, the good thus accomplished has in part been 
destroyed again by forces inherent in the Nazi dynamic. The 
Nazi youth organizations take up ao much of the boy or girl'i 
leisure time that little is left for the hearth-side. Moreover, 
the 'anti-bourgeois' doctrine inculcated tends to make th 



348 MEIN KAMPF 

hesitating despite all clamor and lamentations which then, 
of course, will be let loose. If we do not lift our youth out 
of the morass of its present surroundings, it will be sub- 
merged in it. He who does not want to see these things 
supports them and becomes thus a fellow culprit in the 
slow prostitution of our future, for the latter lies in the 
coming generation. This cleaning-up of our culture must 
extend to nearly all domains. Theater, art, literature, 
movies, the press, billposters and window displays must be 
cleaned of the symptoms of a rotting world and put into 
the service of a moral idea of State and culture. Public 
life has to be freed from the suffocating perfume of our 
modern eroticism, exactly as also of all unmanly prudish 
insincerity. In all these things the goal and the way have 
to be determined by the care for the preservation of our 
people's health in body and soul. The right of personal 
freedom steps back in the face of the duty of the preserva- 
tion of the race. 

f Only after the execution of these measures can the 
medical fight against this disease itself be carried on with 
some prospects of success. However, here, too, the ques- 
tion involved cannot be that of half measures, but also 
here one will have to come to the most serious and most 
incisive decisions. It is a half measure to allow incurably 
ill people the permanent possibility of contaminating the 



domestic virtues seem tame. Henri Lichtenberger concludes 
(The Third Reich) that 'the gulf between generations, far from 
being bridged, is only becoming greater under the Spartan 
regime installed by Hitlerism.' Moral conditions are often 
deplorable, judged by standards of Christian or bourgeois 
morality. The fact that an illegitimate child, if born of 'good 
stock/ is considered an asset to the Reich seems to have made 
many young girls lose their heads; and an increase in the 
practice of homosexual vice is conceded on all sides. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 349 

other healthy ones. But this corresponds entirely to a 
humaneness which, in order not to hurt one individual, 
lets hundreds of others perish. The demand that for de- 
fective people the propagation of an equally defective off- 
spring be made impossible is a demand of clearest reason 
and in its planful execution it means the most humane act 
of mankind. It will spare undeserved suffering to millions 
of unfortunates, but in the future it will lead to an increas- 
ing improvement of health on the whole. The determina- 
tion to proceed in this direction will also put up a dam 
against the further spreading of venereal diseases. For 
here, if necessary, one will have to proceed to the pitiless 
isolation of incurably diseased people; a barbaric measure 
for one who was unfortunate enough to be stricken with it, 
but a blessing for the contemporaries and for posterity. 
The temporary pain of a century may and will redeem 
millenniums from suffering. 

The fight against syphilis and its pacemaker, prostitu- 
tion, is one of the most colossal tasks of mankind, colossal 
for the reason that it does not involve the solution of a 
single question in itself, but rather the abolition of quite 
a series of evils which, as their consecutive symptoms, 
give the cause for this disease. For the illness of the body 
is here only the result of an illness of moral, social, and 
racial instincts. 

If this fight, by reason of inertia or also cowardice, is 
not fought out, then one should look upon the nations five 
hundred years from now. Then one would be able to find 
only a few images of God, without deliberately insulting 
the All Highest. 

But how, in the old Germany, had one tried to deal with 
this plague? Upon quiet examination there results a really 
distressing answer to this. In the circles of the government 
one certainly knew the terrible ravages of this illness very 
well, though one was perhaps not quite able to visualize 



350 MEIN KAMPF 

the consequences; but in the fight against it one failed 
completely, and instead of thoroughgoing reforms one 
preferred to take miserable means. One doctored about 
with the disease and one let the causes be causes. One 
subjected the individual prostitute to a medical examina- 
tion, supervised her as well as might be possible, and in 
case of an ascertained illness put her into some hospital, 
from which, after being outwardly cured, she was let loose 
again on the rest of mankind. 

Of course, one had introduced a 'protective paragraph, 9 
according to which a person who was not quite healthy or 
cured had under penalty to avoid sexual intercourse. This 
measure is certainly right in itself, but in its practical 
execution it fails almost completely. First, the woman, in 
case she is met by misfortune in this way, solely in conse- 
quence of our, or rather of her, education, will in most 
cases refuse to let herself be dragged into the courtroom 
(under accompanying circumstances which are certainly 
often embarrassing) as a witness against the wretched thief 
of her health. Just to her this is of little use; anyhow, in 
most cases, she will be the one who has to suffer most from 
this; because she is hit much harder by the contempt of 
her heartless surroundings than would be the case with 
the man. But finally, imagine her situation if the conveyer 
of the disease is her own husband. Is she to put him on 
trial? Or what else, then, is she to do? 

But in the case of the man the fact is added that he 
unfortunately runs only too often into the way of this 
plague after ample consumption of liquor, as in this state 
he is least in a position to judge the qualities of his 4 beauty ' ; 
a fact that is only too well known to the prostitute who is 
sick, anyhow, and that, for this reason, causes her always 
to fish for men in this ideal condition. But the end is that 
he, disagreeably surprised later on, is not able to remember 
his one-time compassionate benefactress, despite frantic 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 351 

reflections, something that must not be surprising in a city 
like Berlin or even Munich. To this is added further that 
the persons involved are frequently visitors from the pro- 
vinces who in any case face the whole humbug of the big 
cities with complete perplexity. 

Finally, however, who is able to know whether he is 
sick or healthy? Do not numerous cases occur where an 
apparently cured person suffers relapses and now causes 
the most terrible evil, without himself being aware of it 
in the end? 

Thus the practical effect of this protection by the legal 
penalty of a guilty infection is in reality equal to naught. 
Exactly the same can be said of the control of the prosti- 
tutes, and finally also the cure itself is still uncertain and 
doubtful even today. Only one thing is certain : the disease 
spreads more and more despite all the preventive measures 
of that time. By this, however, the ineffectiveness of these 
measures is proved in the most striking way. 

For everything that was done besides this was as ridicu- 
lous as it was insufficient. The fight against the prostitu- 
tion of the people's soul failed on the entire line; that means 
more rightly that here one did nothing at all. 

But he who wants to understand this easily need only 
study the statistical basic facts about the spreading of this 
plague, compare its growth during the last hundred years, 
and try to imagine this further development and he 
really would have the simple-mindedness of an ass if then 
an uncomfortable chill did not run down his spine. 

The weakness and the half-heartedness with which even 
then one defined one's attitude towards such a terrible 
symptom can be evaluated as a visible sign of the decay of 
a people. When the energy for the fight for one's own health 
is no longer present, the right of living in this world of strength 
begins gradually to withdraw. 

It belongs really only to the powerful 'whole' and not 
to the weak 'half/ 



352 MEIN KAMPF 

One of the most visible symptoms of the old Reich's 
decay was the slow sinking of the general level of culture; 
by culture I do not mean what is called today by the word 
'civilization.' The latter seems to be, on the contrary, 
rather an enemy of true spiritual and living levels. 

As early as before the turn of the century an element 
began to push its way into our att which up to that time 
could be looked upon as entirely alien and unknown. Per- 
haps in previous times errors of taste happened some- 
times, but the cases involved were artistic derailments to 
which posterity at least gave a certain historical value, 
rather than products of a degeneration which was no 
longer artistic at all but rather senseless. Through them 
the political collapse, which later on, of course, became 
better visible, began to announce its arrival in the cultural 
field. 

The bolshevism of art is the only cultural form of life, 

Here Hitler states, without philosophical elaboration, the 
doctrine which some groups of German intellectuals accepted 
as a bridge across which the German mind could pass to Na- 
tional Socialism. Civilization means the application of reason 
to life, a process which scored its greatest triumphs while 
Germany was struggling to emerge from the debris of the 
Thirty Years' War Goethe, Schiller, Kant, not to mention 
Lessing and Wieland, are reflections of the Western mind 
rather than original creations of the German soul. Even the 
great medieval Empire was based upon the triumph of Chris- 
tianity. Therefore the patriot prefers to seek out the 'life 
forces,' the irrational impulses, which seem to him more chat- 
acteristic of the German mind. This decision is sometimes 
couched in desperate phraseology: 'When I hear the word 
culture,' wrote Hans Johst (the first official Nazi playwright), 
1 release the safety catch on my revolver.' And F. G. Jtinger 
that half-mad but gifted poet who eventually found Hitlerism 
tale and unprofitable, and went to prison for having indited, 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 353 

and the only intellectual manifestation possible to bolshc- 
vism on the whole. 

He to whom this may seem strange should only subject 
to an examination the art of those States which have had 
the good fortune of being bolshevized, and to his horror 
he will observe the sickly excrescences of lunatics or of 
degenerate people which since the turn of the century we 
have learned to know under the collective conception of 
cubism or dadaism as the official art of those States. This 
phenomenon had become apparent even in the short dura- 
tion of the Bavarian Soviet Republic. Even here one 
could see how all the official billposters, propaganda draw- 
ings in the newspapers, etc., showed the stamp of not 
only political, but also that of cultural, decay. 

As little as one could imagine about sixty years ago a 
political collapse of the greatness now arrived at, just as 
little was a cultural breakdown thinkable as it began to 
show itself in futuristic and cubistic representations since 
1900. Sixty years ago an exhibition of so-called dadaistic 



the most violent attack on the Party ever penned inside 
Germany asks, 'Why do we need four walls? One wall is 
enough!' The wall is that against which the enemy is stood 
and shot. But one is not quite sure that J linger isn't being 
ironical. In so far as the philosophers (Klages, Heidegger, 
Baumler) are concerned, this development means a revival of 
certain aspects of early nineteenth-century idealism, with a 
militaristic emphasis. (Cf. Mensch und Erdc, by Dietrich 
Klages.) 

Hitler's views, re-emphasized in his Munich art lecture of 
1937, crystallize in the teaching that there is only one art 
German-Nordic art. All attempts to sunder painting, for 
example, into various schools are mistaken. The most impor- 
tant exponent of these views is Professor Paul Schultze- 
Naumburg, who achieved fame when he was appointed director 



354 MEIN KAMPF 

'experiences' would have seemed simply impossible, and 
the sponsors would have been sent to the madhouse, while 
today they even preside in 'artists' unions.' This plague 
could not have appeared at that time, because neither 
would public opinion have suffered it nor would the State 
have looked on quietly. For it is an affair of the State 
that means of the government to prevent a people from 
being driven into the arms of spiritual lunacy. For in 
lunacy such a development would end one day. For on 
the day that this kind of art were actually to correspond 
to the general conception, one of the most severe changes 
of mankind would have begun ; the backward development 
of the human brain would have begun with this, but one 
would hardly be able to conceive the end. 

As soon, however, as from this point of view one lets 
pass before one's eyes the development of our cultural life 

of the Weimar Art School after the Nazi triumph of 1930. 
He immediately caused to be removed from the Weimar 
Museum all examples of expressionistic art, on the ground that 
this was an expression of a mankind subnormal from the racial 
point of view. Later on he delivered what was then considered 
a startling address, claiming that race dictated one's response 
to art, and that anyone who found esthetic pleasure in expres- 
sionism was not a German. Schultze-Naumburg contends 
that an artist cannot help reproducing 'the most signal racial 
characteristics of his own figure.' Therefore distortions, as 
practiced by the modernists, imply that the painter or sculptor 
is himself deformed in a racial sense. Many Nazis have ac- 
cepted these teachings with a wry grimace, pointing out that 
on such a basis the museums ought also to be cleansed of 
primitive, Egyptian, Byzantine, and even Italian art. On the 
subject of music, Hitler has been equally categorical: To me 
a single German military march is worth more than all the 
junk of these new musicians these people belong in a 
sanatorium.* 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 355 

in the past twenty-five years, one will be shocked at seeing 
how far we already are on the way to this backward devel- 
opment. Everywhere we meet germs that represent the 
beginning of excrescences by which our culture is bound to 
perish sooner or later. Also, we are able to recognize in 
them the symptoms of decay of a slowly rotting world. 
Woe to the nations which are no longer able to master 
this disease ! 

One was able to find such diseases in almost all domains 
of art and general culture in Germany. Here everything 
seemed to have already passed the climax and to hurry 
towards the abyss. The theater sank visibly deeper and it 
would probably have retired completely as a cultural factor 
even then, had not at least the Court Theaters turned 
against this prostitution of art. If one leaves these and a 
few praiseworthy exceptions out of account, the perform- 
ances of the stage were such that for the sake of the nation 
it would have been more useful to avoid visiting them en- 
tirely.^- It was a sorrowful sign of inner decay that one no 
longer might send the young people to most of these so- 
called 'abodes of art,' which was openly and shamelessly 
admitted with the general warning of the penny arcades 
1 Children are not admitted ! ' 

One should consider that one had to take such precau- 
tions in those places which primarily should exist for the 
education of youth and not for the amusement of old blast 
generations. What would the great dramatists of all times 
have said to such a rule and what, above all, about the cir- 
cumstances which gave the causes for them? How would 
perhaps a Schiller have flared up and a Goethe have turned 
away in indignation! 

However, what are Schiller, Goethe, or Shakespeare as 
compared with the 'heroes' of the new German dramatic 
art? Old, worn-out, and outlived, nay, 'conquered' types. 
For this was the characteristic of this time: not that it 



356 MEIN KAMPF 

itself produced only dirt; what is more, it sullied everything 
that was really great in the past. This is, however, a 
symptom which one can see always at such times. The 
more villainous and wretched are the products of a time 
and its people, the more one hates the witnesses of a former 
greater time and dignity. But most of all in such times 
one would like to eliminate altogether the memory of the 
past of mankind, in order to disguise thus, by the exclusion 
of every possibility of comparison, one's own trash as 
'art.' For this reason, the more wretched and miserable 
any new institution is, the more will it endeavor to extin- 
guish even the last traces of past times, whereas any really 
valuable renovation of mankind can also continue, with 
an easy mind, the good achievements of past generations, 
even often now tries to make them stand out. Then it has 
no fear to fade perhaps as compared with the past, but 
for its own part it makes such a valuable contribution to 
the general treasure of human culture that often, for the 
very evaluation of the latter, it wishes to keep awake the 
memory of the former achievements in order to secure thus 
all the more the full understanding of the present for the 
new donation. Only he who is not able to give anything 
valuable out of himself to the world, but tries to act as 
though he wants to give it God knows what, will hate 



Yet oddly enough it is precisely Goethe who, by reason of 
his bourgeois background, is today characteristic of the 'civi- 
lization' which the Nazi Revolution discountenances. Some- 
times he has been hated because foreigners relish his poetry; 
sometimes he has been tossed aside scornfully as the 'man 
without a musket.' The first generation of Nazi philosophers 
Rosenberg, Klages still numbered him among the nation's 
great. The second generation no longer reads him. Hauer's 
attempt to make him the 'prophet of the new German religion" 
has failed. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 357 

everything that has already been given and would most 
of all like to deny it or even to destroy it. 
t This may be said not only for 'novelties' in the domain 
of general culture, but also for those of politics. Revolu- 
tionary new movements, the more inferior they themselves 
are, the more will they hate the old form. Also here one 
can see how the striving to make one's own trash appear 
as something leads to blind hatred towards the superior 
good of the past. As long as, for example, the historical 
memory of a Frederick the Great has not died, a Friedrich 
Ebert is only able to create moderate astonishment. The 
hero of Sans Souci is to the former barkeeper of Bremen 
approximately like the sun is to the moon. Only when the 
rays of the sun are gone is the moon able to shine. There- 
fore, the hatred of all new moons of humanity towards 
their fixed stars is only too understandable. In political 
life such naughts usually, if Fate throws the reign tempo- 
rarily into their laps, not only soil and stain the past with 
untiring zeal, but they also withdraw themselves, by ex- 
treme measures, from general criticism. As an example for 
this the protective legislation of the Republic may be 
considered. 

If, therefore, any new idea, a new doctrine, a view of life 
or also a political as well as an economic movement tries to 
deny the entire past, or wants to deride it and to make it 
valueless, for this reason alone one has to be extremely 
cautious and mistrusting. In most cases the reason for 

This attack on Ebert, first President of the Republic, is 
entirely in the spirit of the conservative opposition, which 
forgot that Ludendorff had said hopefully, 'Ebert will manage.' 
The laws referred to were passed after the murder of Rathenau 
to protect the government and its officials against arbitrary 
attacks from Rightist organizations. Spengler inveighs against 
them in much the same way. 



358 MEIN KAMPF 

such hatred is either one's own inferiority or even an evil 
intention in itself. A genuinely blissful renovation of man- 
kind would always and forever have to continue to build 
in that place where the last foundation ends. It will not 
have to be ashamed of using existing truths. The entire 
human culture, as well as man himself, is only the result of 
one long single development, during which every genera- 
tion added to, and built in, its building stones. The mean- 
ing and the aim of revolutions is not to wreck the entire 
building, but rather to take away unsuitable stuff which 
has been badly fitted in and to continue to build on and 
add to the healthy spot that has been made free. 

Thus alone will one be able and allowed to speak of a 
progress of mankind. In the other case the world is never 
redeemed from chaos, as the right of rejection of the past 
would fall to every generation, and with this every genera- 
tion would be allowed, as the presupposition for its own 
work, to destroy the works of the past. 

The saddening fact of the deterioration of our culture 
of the pre-War time lay, however, not only in the complete 
impotency of the artistic and generally cultural creative 
force, but rather in the hatred with which the memory of 
the greater past was soiled and extinguished. In nearly 
all domains of art, and especially of the theater and of 
literature, one began to produce less important novelties at 
the turn of the century, in order, however, to deride instead 
the best old creations and to present them as inferior and 
conquered, as though this period of the most shameful 
inferiority would be at all able to 'conquer' anything. Out 
of this striving to remove the past out of the sight of the 
present, the evil intention of these 'apostles' of the future 
could clearly and distinctly be seen. From this one should 
have recognized that one had to deal, not with certain cul- 
tural intentions, even though they were wrong, but with 
a process of destruction of the basis of culture as a whole, 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 359 

and with a ridiculing of sound art appreciation, made 
possible by this and with the intellectual preparation 
for political bolshevism. For if the time of Pericles appears 
incorporated in the Parthenon, so does the bolshevistic 
present in a cubistic grimace. 

In this connection one has also to point to the cowardice 
which again becomes visible through this of part of our 
people which by virtue of its education and its position 
should have been obliged to make front against this cul- 
tural disgrace. Out of pure fear of the clamor of these 
bolshevistic art apostles who most violently attacked and 
nailed down as an old-fashioned philistine everyone who 
did not want to recognize in them the crown of creation, 
one renounced any serious resistance and gave in to what 
seemed inevitable after all. One was seized with genuine 
fear of being denounced for lack of understanding by these 
half-wits or scoundrels; as though it were a^disgrace not to 
understand the products of intellectual degenerates or 
cunning deceivers. These disciples of culture, however, 

The hatred of expressionism which had its roots in 
Nietzsche is bound up in Hitler's mind with admiration foi 
Wagner's writings on art. The composer of Gotierddmmerung 
was a great musician, but he was in some ways a philistine; 
and it was against that philistinism that Nietzsche protested 
bitterly. Speaking in Dresden in 1848, Wagner said: 'What is 
the German thing? It is, it must be, the right thing!' In the 
apotheosis of Germanism which Wagner represents, Chamber- 
lain found a living justification of his theories. And through 
Chamberlain (whom he once met in Bayreuth, and from whom 
he received an emphatic endorsement) Hitler has learned how 
to expound Wagner. In a Wagnerian universe, there is room 
for expressionism ( which the war experience greatly furthered) 
because there is no nakedness of soul in Wagnerianism. There 
is only soulfulness a great quality, but one tinged constantly 
in the damp that rises from the waters of banality. 



360 MEIN KAMPF 

had a very simple means to stamp their nonsense into 
God knows how enormous an affair by presenting to the 
astonished world as so-called 'inner experience* any unin- 
telligible and visibly crazy stuff, taking in this cheap man- 
ner the word of reply from the mouths of most people at 
the start. For there was no reason to doubt that this also 
could be an inner experience, but one could doubt whether 
it was permissible to put before the same world the hal- 
lucinations of insane people or criminals. The works of a 
Moritz von Schwind or of a Boecklin were also an 'inner 
experience' at that, of artists endowed with the grace of 
God, and not of fools. 

But here one could so well study the miserable cowardice 
of our so-called ' intelligentsia ' which shuns every serious 
resistance against this poisoning of the sound instinct of 
our people and left it to the people itself to be content with 
this impudent nonsense. In order not to be considered 
lacking in art understanding, one took then every derision 
of art into the bargain in order to become finally actually 
uncertain in the judgment of good or bad. 

Taken all in all, these were signs of a world getting worse 
and worse. 



As a doubtful symptom the following has to be stated : 
During the nineteenth century our cities began to lose 
more and more the character of 'culture places' in order to 
sink to mere 'human settlements.' The weak connection 
which our present-day proletariat of our big cities has 
with its dwelling-place is just the consequence of the fact 
that here really only the accidental local place of residence 
of the individual is involved and nothing else. This is 
partly connected with the frequent change of residence, 
caused by the social conditions, which does not grant 
sufficient time to man for closer connection with his city, 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 361 

and partly the cause of this must be sought also in the 
general cultural unimportance and poverty of our present 
cities themselves. 

Still at the time of the Wars of Liberation, the German 
cities were not only few in number but also modest in size. 
The few really big cities were for the greatest part Court 
cities, and as such they possessed nearly always a certain 
cultural value and mostly also a certain artistic picture. 
The few places of more than fifty thousand inhabitants 
were, as compared with cities of the same population today, 
rich in scientific and artistic treasures. When Munich 
counted sixty thousand souls, it began to become one of 
the first German art centers ; today nearly every manufac- 
turing place has reached, if not even exceeded, this figure 
many times, without, however, sometimes being able to 
call its own even the most humble of genuine values. Pure 
collections of flats and dwelling-houses, nothing more. 
How, with such lack of importance, a special attachment to 
these places can originate must be a riddle. Nobody will 
be specially attached to a city which has nothing else to 
offer than what any other city has; one which lacks any 
individual touch and where everything is carefully avoided 
that could even look like art or something similar. 

But, as if this were not enough, the really big cities also 
become poorer and poorer in works of art, in proportion 
with the rising increase in the number of population. They 
appear more and more polished off and they present ex- 
actly the same picture, though on a larger scale, as the 
small and miserable factory towns. What modern times 
added to the cultural contents of our big cities was com- 
pletely insufficient. All our cities feast on the glory 
and the treasures of the past. It takes from the Munich 
of today everything that was created under the reign of 
Ludwig I ; one will be shocked at seeing how poor the addi- 
tion of important artistic creations since that time is. The 



368 MEIN KAMPF 

same applies to Berlin and to most of the other big cities. 

The essential thing, however, is nevertheless the follow- 
ing: our present big cities have no monuments, dominating 
the entire picture of the city, which could somehow be 
called the symbol of the time. But this was the case in the 
cities of old, since nearly all of them had a special monument 
of its pride. The characteristic of the antique city was not 
found in the private buildings, but in the monuments of 
the community which seemed destined not for the moment 
but for eternity, for they were supposed to reflect not the 
riches of the individual owner but rather the greatness 
and the importance of the community. Thus monuments 
originated which were suited to attach the individual in- 
habitant to his city in a manner which today seems to us 
sometimes almost incomprehensible. For what he had 
before his eyes were not the miserable houses of private 
owners but the magnificent buildings of the whole commun- 
ity. Compared with them the living house was actually 
reduced to an insignificant object of secondary importance. 

For, only when comparing the dimensions of the antique 
State buildings with the contemporary private houses will 
one understand the overpowering sweep and force of this 
stress on the viewpoint to allot the first place to the public 
works. What today we admire in the wreckage and fields 
of ruins of the old world as the few still outstanding colos- 
Buses are not business palaces of the time but temples and 
State buildings; that means works the owner of which was 
the public. Even in the splendor of the later Rome, first 
place was not taken by the villas and the palaces of indi- 
vidual citizens, but by the temples and the thermae, the 

All this has now been changed. Munich has its Kunsthalle, 
Berlin its new Chancellery and Olympic Village. Millions 
have been spent on such buildings, and unlimited millions 
mav still be poured out. 



i 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 363 

staia, circuses, aqueducts, basilicas, etc., of the State; 
that means of the entire people/* 

Even the Germanic Middle Ages maintained this point 
of view, though also under quite different conceptions of 
art as the leading principle. That which in antiquity found 
its expression in the Acropolis or in the Pantheon, now clad 
itself in the forms of the Gothic cathedrals. Like giants 
they stood out over the swarm of small frameworks, wooden 
or brick buildings of the medieval town, and thus they 
became symbols which today still define the character and 
the picture of these places, while at their sides the tene- 
ment-house blocks climb higher and higher. Cathedrals, 
town halls, and grain markets, as well as watch-towers, are 
the visible sign of a conception which ultimately cor- 
responded to that of antiquity. 

But how truly miserable the relation between State and 
private buildings has become today. If Berlin were to meet 
the fate of Rome, then the coming generations could one 
day admire the department stores of some Jews, and the 
hotels of some corporations the most imposing works of 
our time, as the characteristic expression of the culture of 
our days. Compare, therefore, the unfavorable disparity 
that prevails, even in a city like Berlin, between the build- 
ings of the Reich and those of finance and commerce. 

Even the amount of money allotted to the State buildings 
is in most cases truly ridiculous and insufficient. No works 
are created for eternity, but at the most those for the 
momentary need. No higher idea is at all predominant in 
this. The Schloss of Berlin was at the time it was built 
quite a different work from perhaps the new Library in 
the frame of the present. While one single battleship repre- 
sented a value of around sixty millions, hardly half of this 
amount was granted for the first magnificent building of 
the Reich, which was intended for eternity, the Reichstag 
Building. Indeed, when the question of the interior deco- 



364 MEIN KAMPF 

ration was decided upon, the 'high' House voted against 
the use of stone, it ordered the walls trimmed with plaster; 
and this time the 'parliamentarians' had acted correctly 
for once: plaster heads do not belong between walls of stone. 

Thus our cities of the present lack the outstanding symbol 
of national community, and hence it is no wonder that 
the community does not see any symbol of itself in its 
cities. This must lead to a spiritual dullness which mani- 
fests itself in practice in a wholesale indifference of the 
present-day city dweller towards the lot of his city. 

This also is a sign of our declining culture and of our 
general collapse. The time is suffocated in petty expedi- 
ency, in other words, in the service of money. Thus one 
must not be surprised if under such a deity little under- 
standing for heroism remains. The present only harvests 
that which the immediate past has sown. 



All these symptoms of decay are ultimately only conse- 
quences of the lack of a certain, commonly acknowledged 
view of life and of the general uncertainty in the judgment, 
and the definition of an attitude towards the various 
great questions of the time, resulting from it. Therefore, 
everything, beginning with education, is half-hearted and 
wavering, shuns responsibility and ends thus in cowardly 
tolerance of even recognized evils. Dreamy humaneness 
becomes the fashion, and by a weak surrender to the ex- 
crescences and in sparing the individuals, one sacrifices in 
turn the future of millions.-* 

How much the general destruction spread is also appar- 
ent when looking at the religious conditions before the 
War. Here too, uniform and effective convictions, through 
a view of life, had long been lost in great parts of the nation. 
In this the adherents, freeing themselves officially from 
the Church, play a less important r61e than those who are 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 365 

indifferent as a whole. While both denominations keep up 
missions in Asia and Africa, in order to lead new followers 
to the doctrine (an activity, which, compared with the 
advance of the Mohammedan faith, can show only very 
modest successes), in Europe proper they lose millions and 
again millions of adherents of inner homogeneousness, who 
now face religious life either as strangers or at least walk 
ways of their own. The consequences, especially as regards 
morality, are unfavorable ones. 

Remarkable is also the more and more violent fight 
begun against the dogmatic fundamentals of the various 
churches, without which, however, the practical existence 
of a religious faith is unthinkable in this world of man. 
The great masses of a people do not consist of philosophers, 
and it is just for them that faith is frequently the sole basis 
of a moral view of life. The various substitutes have not 
proved so useful in their success that one would be able to 
see in them a useful exchange for the former religious 
creeds. But if religious doctrine and faith are really meant 
to seize the great masses, then the absolute authority of 
the contents of this faith is the basis of all effectiveness. 
What, then, the customary style of living is for general 

This is the reverse of 'religion is the opium of the people. 1 
Rauschning (cf . his Revolution des Nihilismus) has pointed out 
Hitler's deep respect for the Catholic Church and in particular 
for the Society of Jesus. In this he resembles Auguste Comte, 
who once proposed a liaison between Positivism and Rome. 
Both sundered their admiration from any kind of belief. 
Hitler praises the ability (as he sees it) of the Church to keep 
on resolutely proclaiming an article of faith, however powerful 
the arguments arrayed against it may be. If the nation can 
build dogmas about its new 'myth' and propagate them aa 
stubbornly, it may (so it is thought) give Germany a new faith, 
which the masses will cherish as tenaciously as they have until 
latterly cherished Christianity. 



366 MEIN KAMPF 

life, without which certainly hundreds of thousands ol 
well-bred people would live sensibly and wisely, but mil- 
lions of others certainly would not, the organic laws are 
for the State and dogma is for religion. Only by this is the 
wavering and infinitely interpretable, purely spiritual idea 
definitely limited and brought into a shape, without which 
it could never become faith. In the other case, the idea 
would never grow beyond a metaphysical conception, in 
short, beyond a philosophical opinion. The attack upon 
the dogma in itself resembles, therefore, very strongly also 
the fight against the general legal fundamentals of the 
State, and, just as the latter would find its end in a com- 
plete anarchy of the State, thus the other in a worthless 
religious nihilism. 

But for the politician the estimation of the value of a 
religion must be decided less by the deficiencies which it 
perhaps shows than by the presence of a visibly better 
substitute. As long as there is no apparent substitute, that 
which is present can be demolished only by fools or by 
criminals. 

Of course, not the smallest share of the guilt of the 
unenjoyable religious conditions lies with those who burden 
the religious conception too much with worldly things, 



An attack on the Center Party, the official spokesmen for 
which were often priests and prelates. The fact that a Catholic 
Party entered into a coalition with Social Democracy in the 
Reich and in several States was described as a 'betrayal* of 
Christian principles not only by Right radicals with axes to 
grind, but also by a number of wealthy and conservative 
Catholics. As a matter of fact, that collaboration not only had 
the sanction of the highest ecclesiastical authorities in the land 
but was unimpeachable on any basis. The 'liberalism' of the 
'political Catholics' was a favorite shibboleth among Jew 
baiters. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 367 

thus bringing it frequently into a quite unnecessary con- 
flict with so-called exact science. Here the victory will, 
though after a serious struggle, nearly always fall to the 
latter, but religion will suffer serious damage in the eyes 
of all those who are not able to raise themselves above 
purely outward knowledge. 

But worse than all are the devastations which are brought 
about by the abuse of religious convictions for political 
purposes. One can really not proceed too sharply against 
those wretched profiteers who like to see in religion an 
instrument which may render them political, or rather com- 
mercial, services. These impudent liars, however, shout 
their creed into the world with a stentorian voice so that 
the other sinners can surely hear it, but not in order to die 
for it, if necessary, but in order to live better. For one 
single political job they offer the meaning of an entire 
faith for sale; for ten parliamentary mandates they ally 
themselves with the Marxist mortal enemies of all reli- 
gion and for one minister's seat they would certainly 
also marry the Devil, in so far as the latter would not be 
deterred by a remnant of decency. 

If in pre-War Germany the religious life had for many 
an after-taste, this was attributable to the misuse which 
was inflicted on Christianity on the part of a so-called 
1 Christian ' party, as well as to the impudence with which 
one tried to identify the Catholic faith with a political party. 

This substitution was a fatality which perhaps brought 
parliamentary seats to a number of good-for-nothings, but 
injury to the Church. 

The result, however, had to be borne by the whole 
nation, as the consequences of the loosening of religious life 
caused by this occurred just in a time when everything 
began to give way and to change, anyhow, and when the 
traditional fundamentals of behavior and moralitv threat- 
ened to collapse. 



368 MEIN KAMPF 

This, too, represented cracks and rifts in our national 
body which might well be harmless as long as no special 
strain occurred, but which were bound to cause disaster 
whenever, by the impetus of great events, the question 
of the inner solidarity of the nation became of decisive 
importance. 

* 

Also in the field of politics, when looked at with observant 
eyes, there were evils which might and must appear as 
symptoms of a coming decay of the Reich, provided no 
improvement or change were soon brought about. The 
aimlessness of German domestic and foreign politics was 
visible to anyone who did not deliberately wish to be blind. 
The business of compromise seemed to agree most of all 
with Bismarck's opinion that ' politics is the art of the pos- 
sible.' Now, however, there was just a slight difference 
between Bismarck and German chancellors who followed, 
which permitted the former to drop such a remark about 
the nature of politics, while the same opinion out of the 
mouths of his successors was bound to assume quite a 
different significance. For Bismarck only wished to express 
with this sentence that, in order to reach a certain political 
goal, all possibilities may be applied, or, one can proceed 
according to all possibilities; but his successors saw in this 
utterance only the solemn exemption from the necessity of 
having political thoughts or even aims at all. But political 
aims were really no longer present at that time for the 
leading authorities of the Reich; because for this the neces- 
sary foundation of a view of life and the necessary clarity 
on the laws of inner development of political life as a whole 
were missing. 

There were not a few to whom the prospects in this 
direction appeared dim and who castigated the planless- 
ness and thoughtlessness of the policy of the Reich, and 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 369 

were, accordingly, very well aware of its inner weakness and 
hollowness, but they were only the outsiders of political 
life; the official authorities of the government passed by 
the observations of a Houston Stewart Chamberlain just 
as indifferently as this is still the case with us today. These 
people are too stupid to think for themselves, and too vain 
to learn which is necessary from others. Thus one sees 
incorporated in almost every councillor of the ministry 
an atom of that eternal truth which caused Oxenstierna to 
exclaim: 'The world is ruled only by a fraction of wisdom.' 
(This is no longer the case since Germany has become a 
republic. Therefore, it has also been forbidden by the law 
for the Protection of the Republic to believe, or even to 
discuss, anything like that. But Oxenstierna was lucky that 
he lived at that time and not in this wise republic of today.) 

As early as in pre-War times, that institution was recog- 
nized in which the strength of the Reich was to incorporate 
itself as the greatest weakness: the parliament, the Reich- 
stag. Here cowardice and irresponsibility presented them- 
selves in a rarely finished type. 

It is one of the greatest thoughtless observations which 
one may hear not infrequently, especially in these days, 
that in Germany parliamentarism 'has failed since the 
Revolution.' By this the appearance is only too easily 
given as though this had perhaps not been the case before 
the Revolution. But this institution can in reality have no 
other effect than a devastating one and this at a time 
when most people, still clad with blinders, did not or did 
not want to see anything. For, that Germany actually 
was crushed was not a little due to this institution, but that 
the catastrophe had not occurred before cannot be con- 
sidered as the merit of the Reichstag, but was attributable 
to the resistance which, still in the years of peace, con- 
fronted the activity of this gravedigger of the German 
nation and the German Reich. 



370 MEIN KAMPF 

Out of the vast number of devastating evils which came 
forth from, or were caused by, this institution, 1 will point 
only to a single one which, however, exhibits most of all Ac 
inner nature of this most irresponsible institution of all 
times. The terrible half measures and weakness of the 
political guidance of the Reich in domestic and foreign 
affairs was due primarily to the working of the Reichstag; 
it became one of the chief causes of the political collapse. 

Half measure was everything that in any way was sub- 
ject to the influence of this parliament, no matter how one 
looks at it. 

Half measure and weak was the Reich's policy of alliances 
in foreign politics. While thus one wanted to preserve peace, 
one was bound to drive unresistingly towards war. 

Half measure was furthermore the policy towards Poland. 



The restraint of this passage is noteworthy. Prior to the 
War, the energetic Germanizing of Poland Was fostered by such 
men as Dr. Hugenberg, afterward leader of the Nationalist 
Party and pivot man in the deal which put Hitler in power. 
Disgusted with the failure of the pre-War Prussian government 
to stamp out all Polish opposition, Hugenberg resigned as an 
official, became a director of Krupp, and there made himself 
the systematic mole who ate away the financial underpinning 
of large portions of the German press and then boasted that he 
could make Germany read whatever he wanted it to read. After 
the War he took up the same work anew. Sums gathered from 
Chambers of Commerce, etc., to 'fight Bolshevism' were 
diverted into the purchases of daily and weekly papers until 
Hugenberg, as the controlling influence in the Scherl-Verlag, 
had under his thumb a multitude of German metropolitan and 
provincial dailies. He also acquired UFA, largest German film 
concern, which has more recently become the property of the 
German government. 

After 1922 when the Polish uprisings, intended to wrest 
from Germany more territory than the peace treaties had taken 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 971 

One irritated without, however, ever proceeding seriously. 
The result was neither a reconciliation with the Poles nor 
a German victory, but instead enmity with Russia. 

Half measure was the solution of the question of Alsace- 



from her were in full swing Germany was again characterized 
by a resentment of Polish activities which often contrasted 
strangely with efforts to regulate the trade and minority 
problems. The Corridor, a strip of territory separating East 
Prussia from the main portion of the Reich and leading to the 
new harbor city of Gdynia, was considered a major political 
problem, and the fate of Danzig was kept dangling before the 
consciousness of the League of Nations. But when Hitler came 
to power, an attempt was made to counter Polish opposition by 
establishing friendly relations with that country. It was pointed 
out that after all both countries enjoyed the blessings of 
dictatorship. Many predicted that the Poles and the Germans 
would march arm in arm to the conquest of Russia. 

The Poles, however, were playing a difficult and crafty 
game. For a time they appeared to have rather the better of it. 
They kept a protecting hand over the Polish minority in 
Danzig, and at the same time did not relax the pressure that was 
brought to bear on German minority groups in Poland. It was 
the annexation of Austria that first tipped the scales in Hitler's 
favor. Almost immediately there appeared in various parts of 
the diplomatic world a ' memorandum ' purporting to be a plan 
for a 'Catholic group* of States in Central Europe, running 
from Italy through Croatia and Hungary to Slovakia and 
Poland. When the Czechoslovakian crisis was settled by giving 
Hitler what he wanted, the Poles acted quickly, but were unable 
to secure what, perhaps, they most needed a clear route tc 
the South. They did acquire the Teschen region, which is 
doubtless the richest morsel taken from the State once so hope- 
fully created by Masaryk and Wilson. But the inability of 
Slovakia and Hungary to reach a modus vivendi blocked any 
further progress. Most of the inhabitants ceded to Hungary 
changed their allegiance most unwillingly; and on both sides 



372 MEIN KAMPF 

Lorraine. Instead of smashing with brutal fists once and 
for all times the head of the French hydra, or granting 
equal rights to the Alsatian, one did neither. (One was not 
even able to do so, because in the ranks of the greatest 

of the new boundaries the strange phenomenon of a National 
Socialism making great headway among the peasants though 
they were Slavs or Maygars completely changed the situa- 
tion. The swastika became a popular symbol. To some extent 
this was due to propaganda, but a more important factor was 
the feeling that under Hitler agriculture would be more prosper- 
ous, Jewry at a disadvantage, and all Leftist theories of social 
improvement for the masses abrogated. 

Poland tried very hard to effect the separation of Ruthenia 
from Czechoslovakia. So far it has failed. Far more significant, 
however, is the fact that the collapse of Prague as a center of 
military strength has radically altered the position of Poland. 
Its major natural resources and its armament manufactories 
are in the West, within range of German heavy artillery. 
Therefore its very good army (many rank its infantry with the 
best in Europe) was left dangling by a thread, and it had 
perforce to seek safety by trying to improve relations with 
Russia. The implications of the Ukrainian question have 
already been discussed, but one may add in addition that 
German control of Czechoslovakia can make this a haven for 
Ukrainian separatist agitators. 

Therefore Poland is imperiled. It is difficult to see why 
Warsaw could desire the dismemberment of the State on its 
southern boundaries, even if Teschen was a rich and long- 
coveted prize. Yet it could hardly be to Germany's advantage 
to threaten Poland with war. The cost of such a struggle, 
in treasure and possibly also in prestige, would not compensate 
for the possible gains, among which reacquisition of the Silesian 
coal and ore fields may be listed. 

After the War of 1870, Alsace-Lorraine was incorporated 
in the new German Empire; it eventually became an Imperial 
domain. The Alsatians did not conceal their desire for au- 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 373 

parties there sat also the greatest traitors to the country. 
In the Center Party, for instance, Herr Wetterl6.) 

But all this would still have been bearable if that power 
had not also fallen victim to the general half measures, 
that power on the existence of which finally the existence 
of the Reich depended : the army. 

The way in which the so-called 'German Reichstag' had 
sinned here is enough alone to burden it for all times with 
the curse of the German nation. For the most wretched 

tonomy, which in many cases was more strictly a wish to 
return to France. Bismarck wisely refused to exert untoward 
pressure, believing that after a few generations the feeling 
would die out of its own accord. Nevertheless, he permitted 
himself to be involved in the Kulturkampf, and therewith 
also in ambitious programs for Protestantizing Catholic Alsace. 
The University of Strassburg was the symbol of the 'cultural 
reconstruction* sponsored by Prussia. Naturally the clergy 
now led the opposition, having in Abb6 Haegy a highly gifted 
leader. When the Kulturkampf was over, the Center Party 
took up the task of cementing relationships between Alsace and 
the Reich. It was sometimes sabotaged by the Prussian bu- 
reaucracy and the army (witness theZabern incident of 1913), 
but was none the less so effective on the whole that the vast 
majority of Alsatians fought loyally for Germany during the War 
and afterward became autonomists as a result of their opposi- 
tion to the annexation by France decreed by the Treaty of 
Versailles. Hitlerism abruptly broke off this development, 
although as a result of the Blum policies a new wave of opposi- 
tion arose during 1936. The Abb6 Wetterl6 was the leader of 
those who after the War welcomed enthusiastically the coming 
of the French. 

Very considerable Nazi propaganda efforts were uncovered 
in Alsace, especially in Strassburg, during 1938. The appeal 
seems to have been made on the basis of relative economic 
prosperity. Peasants in particular were induced to believe 
that a millennium had dawned across the Rhine. 



374 MEIN KAMPF 

reasons, these parliamentary party rascals have stolen and 
struck from the hands of the nation the weapon of self- 
preservation, the only protection of the freedom and inde- 
pendence of our people. If today the graves of Flanders Field 
were to open, out of them would rise the bloody accusers, 
hundreds of thousands of the best young Germans, who were 
driven into the arms of death, badly and half-trained, due 
to the unscrupulousness of these parliamentary criminals; 
the fatherland has lost them and millions of cripples and 
dead, simply and solely in order to make possible for a few 
hundred traitors to the people, political wirepulling, extor- 
tion, or even the rattling forth of doctrinary theories. 

While Jewry, through its Marxist and democratic press, 
proclaimed to the whole world the lie of German 'mili- 
tarism' and thus strove to incriminate Germany with all 
possible means, the same parties refused any large-scale 
training of the strength of the German people. Thus the 
enormous crime which was brought about by this must at 
once become clear to everyone who even stops to think 
that in case of a coming war the entire nation would have 
to take up arms, that therefore by the rascality of these 
nice representatives of their own so-called 'representation 
of the people ' millions of Germans would be driven towards 
the enemy with bad, insufficient, or half-finished training. 
But even if one does not take into consideration at all the 
consequences of the brutal and rude unscrupulousness of 
the parliamentary panders, brought about in this manner, 
one must nevertheless not forget that the shortage of 
trained soldiers could easily lead, at the beginning of a war, 

The pre-War Reichstag had the power to veto budget ap- 
propriations. It is not correct to say that it hampered the de- 
velopment of the army of the ill-starred navy, though certain 
extreme demands put foward by Pan-Germanists were not 
found acceptable. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 375 

to losing that war, something that happened in the great 
World War in such a terrible manner. 

The loss of the fight for the freedom and independence of 
the German nation is the result of the half measures and 
the weakness carried out even in peace in drafting the 
entire force of the people for the defense of the fatherland. 



t If too few recruits were trained on land, the same half 
measures were at work at sea, so that the weapon of na- 
tional self-preservation was made more or less worthless. 
Unfortunately, however, here the heads of the navy them- 
selves were infected by this poison. The tendency to build 
all ships, on the stocks, always a little smaller than the 
English ships launched from the stocks at the same time, 
waa little farseeing and still less ingenious. A navy which 
from the beginning cannot be brought to the same level 
with its prospective enemy, purely in terms of numbers, 
must try to replace the lack in numbers by the superior 
fighting power of the single ships. It is the superior fighting 
power that matters and not a legendary superior 'quality/ 
which is nonsense as long as it does not express itself in 
fighting power. In fact, modern technique has now ad- 
vanced to such an extent and has arrived at so great a 
uniformity in the various civilized States that it must be 
considered impossible to give to the ships of one power 
a considerably greater fighting value than to the ships of 
the same tonnage of another State. But it is far less con- 
ceivable to attain superiority with smaller displacement 
as compared with a greater. 

Indeed, the small tonnage of the German ships could be 
brought about only at the expense of speed and armament. 
The phrase with which one now tries to justify this fact 
shows, however, a very serious lack of logic on the part 
of the authority which was responsible for this in peace 



376 MEIN KAMPF 

times. For one explained that the material of the German 
guns was so visibly superior to that of the British that the 
German 28 cm. gun barrel did not fall behind the British 
30.5 cm. barrel in firing efficiency!! 

But just for this reason it would have been the duty 
now also to change over to the 30.5 cm. cannon, as the goal 
should not have been to reach the same, but a superior, 
fighting power. Otherwise the ordering of the 42 cm. mortar 
would have been superfluous as the German 21 cm. mortar 
was in itself superior to any French high-angled cannon, 
present at that time, but the forts would have fallen also 
before the 30.5 cm. cannon. The leaders of the land army 
thought correctly, but those of the navy unfortunately 
did not. 

The abandonment of a superior effect of the artillery as 
well as of a superior speed was founded entirely in the 
so-called 'idea of risk,' which was basically wrong. The 
heads of the navy, by the very form of its construction, re- 
nounced the offensive and thus necessarily stressed the 
defensive. But with this one also renounced ultimate suc- 
cess, which lies, and can lie forever, only in the offensive. 

A ship with less speed and weaker armature will in most 

It would be difficult to buttress these assertions with facts. 
It is surely not the fault of the Reichstag that the Admiralty 
adopted a type of gun later found inadequate. As a matter 
of fact, not a few Reichstag delegates notably Matthias 
Erzberger were almost pathetic in their efforts to induce 
Admiral von Tirpitz to speed up armament. The development 
of naval aviation was urged in particular. But Tirpitz, who 
did not wish to commit himself to any instrument of war until 
its efficiency had been established, was slow to act. In the 
end he was, of course, found to have guessed wrong. Believing 
that the War would necessarily be of brief duration, he had 
supposed that the British fleet would attack in the North Sea. 
and had not reckoned with the blockade. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 377 

cases be sent to the bottom by the speedier and more 
heavily armed enemy with the firing distance which is more 
favorable to the latter. Quite a number of our cruisers had 
to experience this in the bitterest manner. However, the 
War showed how absolutely wrong was this opinion of the 
heads of the navy in peace time which, wherever possible, 
forced us to change the armature of the old, or to improve 
that of the new, ships. But if in the battle of the Skagerrak 
the German ships had had the same tonnage, the same 
armament, and the same speed as the British ships, then, 
under the hurricane of the better-hitting German 38 cm, 
shells, the British fleet would have sunk into a watery grave. 

Japan at one time had carried out a different policy for 
her navy. There one principally stressed the point of having 
in each single new ship a superior fighting power against 
the prospective enemy. This corresponded to the possi- 
bility of utilizing the navy in the offensive. 

While the leaders of the land][army still kept themselves 
free from such fundamentally wrong trains of thought, the 
navy, which unfortunately was represented * parliamenta- 
rily ' in a better way, succumbed also to the mentality of this 
institution. It was organized by halfway viewpoints and 
was later on also used according to similar ones. What 
nevertheless appeared in the form of immortal glory was 
attributable only to the solid German craftsmanship as 
well as to the ability and the incomparable heroism of the 
various officers and crews. But if the former headquarters 
of the navy had also been up to this in ingenuity, the sacri- 
fices would not have been in vain. 

Thus perhaps it was just the superior parliamentary 
ability of the leading head of the navy in peace time that 
turned out to be its misfortune, since, unfortunately also 
in its structure, instead of purely military viewpoints, 
parliamentary viewpoints began to play the decisive r61e. 
The half measures and the weakness, as well as the scanty 



378 MEIN KAMPF 

logic which is the parliamentary institutions 9 own, began 
to tint also the heads of the navy. 

As already pointed out, the land army still refrained 
from such trains of thought, which were basically wrong. 
Especially the colonel in the Great General Staff of that 
time, Ludendorff , led a desperate fight against the criminal 
half measures and weakness with which the Reichstag 
faced the vital questions of the nation, and mostly denied 
them. If the battle which this officer fought at that time 
was nevertheless futile, the fault rested half upon parlia- 
ment, but half upon the, if possible, still more wretched 
attitude and weakness of the Reichs-Chancellor Bethmann- 
Hollweg. But this does not in the least hinder the culprits 
of the German collapse from trying to attribute today the 
guilt to the very man who alone turned against this negli- 
gent treatment of national interests. (One betrayal more 
or less never makes any difference to these born wire- 
pullers.) 

He who thinks over all these sacrifices which were bur- 
dened upon the nation by the criminal carelessness of these 
most unscrupulous men, he who leads before his eyes all 
the dead and the cripples, sacrificed in vain, as well as the 
boundless disgrace and dishonor, the unspeakable misery 
which now has met us, and he who knows that all this came 
only in order to open the way towards the minister's seat 
for a crowd of unscrupulously pushing persons and job- 
hunters, will also understand that one can call these crea- 
tures really only by words like scoundrel, villain, rascal, 
and criminal, because otherwise the meaning and the pur- 
pose of the existence of these expressions in the usage of 
the language would be incomprehensible. For, in compari- 
son with these traitors to the nation, every pimp is a gentle- 
man. 



. THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 379 

But it is strange that all real shadow sides of the old 
Germany caught the eye only whenever by this the inner 
solidarity of the nation had to suffer injury. Indeed, in 
such cases, the disagreeable truths were simply shouted out 
to the great masses, while otherwise one preferred shame- 
fully to pass by in silence many things, even partly to deny 
them. This was the case whenever an improvement could 
perhaps have been carried out by public treatment of a 
question. In addition, the authoritative parties of the 
government understood next to nothing of the value and 
the nature of propaganda. That by propaganda, with 
permanent and clever application, even heaven can be 
palmed off on a people as hell, and, the other way round, 
the most wretched life as paradise, this only the Jew knew, 
who then acted accordingly; the German, or rather his 
government, had not the faintest idea of this. 

This was to take its most serious revenge during the War. 



All the numerous evils of the German life before the 
War, as pointed out here, and others, were set off also by 
many advantages. With a just examination one must even 
acknowledge that, to a great extent, the other countries 
and peoples also called most of our ills their own, and that 



Before the War, Germany had relied in the main on industrial 
rather than investment expansion. Branch plants were es- 
tablished in well-nigh all foreign countries; centers of trade 
influence were built up, often at great cost. When the War 
was lost, it was argued that the friendship which had bound 
the Allied countries together was a consequence of the financial 
ties which existed between them. A favorite thesis has been, 
for example, that Germany's freedom from indebtedness to the 
'bankers 9 had been a great disadvantage, since no one had 
interests at stake inside her boundaries. German Jewish news- 



380 MEIN KAMPF 

in many things they overshadowed us by far, while they 
did not possess many of our actual advantages. 

The loremost of these advantages may be said, among 
other things, to be the fact that the German people among 
nearly all European nations still tried most of all to pre- 
serve the national character of its economy, and that, 
despite many evil premonitions, it was least of all subject 
to the international finance control. A dangerous ad- 
vantage, however, which later on also became the greatest 
instigator of the World War. 

If one sets aside this and many other facts, then three 
institutions stand out among the vast number of the healthy 
sources of the nation's power which in their kind presented 
themselves as exemplary as well as partly unexcelled. 

There was first the State form in itself and the dis- 
tinct stamp which it had received in the Germany of modern 
times. 

Here one may set aside the various monarchs, who, as 
human beings, could not help being subject to all weak- 
nesses which are usually visited upon this world and its 
children, for otherwise one would really have to despair al- 
together of the present; for the representatives of the pres- 
ent regime, looked upon just as personalities, are perhaps 
mentally and morally the most modest that one is able to 
Imagine, even after prolonged reflection. He who measures 
the ' value* of the German Revolution with the value and 
the greatness of the personalities which it has given to the 
German people since November, 1918, will cover his face 

papermen and pacifists were (so ran the tale) employed to 
weaken the army of the fatherland. While they undermined 
German resistance, their brethren outside stirred up the rest 
of the world against Germany. Doubtless no astute Nazi 
leader has ever credited these hypotheses, which were designed 
for the consumption of the infantile. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 381 

in shame before the judgment of posterity which one will 
not be able to stop from talking by protective laws, etc., 
and which therefore will say what all of us nevertheless 
recognize today, that is, that the brains and the virtues of 
our neo-German leaders are in the inverse proportion to the 
snouts and vices. 

The monarchy was certainly estranged from many, es- 
pecially from the great masses of the people. This was the 
consequence of the fact that the monarchs were not always 
surrounded let us say by the most brilliant, and particu- 
larly not by the most honest, heads. Unfortunately, they 
partly preferred the flatterers rather than the straightfor- 
ward natures, and therefore they were also ' instructed ' by 
flatterers. A very grave evil in a time when the world had 
undergone a great change in many old opinions, a change 
which now naturally did not stop before the judgment of 
many old-established traditions of the Courts. 

At the turn of the century, therefore, the common man 
and human being was no longer able to show special ad- 
miration for a princess clad in a uniform, riding along a 
front. It is obvious that one was not able to imagine the 
effect of such a parade in the eyes of the people, because 
otherwise such unfortunate incidents would probably never 
have taken place. Also, the humane dreams of these cir- 
cles, which were not always quite genuine, had a repelling 
rather than an attractive effect. If, for example, the Prin- 
cess X 'deigned' to taste a sample of the food in a people's 
kitchen with the wiell-known result, it might perhaps have 
looked well enough in former times, but the success at that 
time was to the contrary. In this case one may well assume 
that Her Highness had really no idea that on the day of her 
inspection the food was a little different from that of the 
other days ; but it was quite sufficient that the people knew 
this. 

Thus the best possible intention became ridiculous, if 
not actually irritating. 



382 MEIN KAMPF 

Descriptions of the always proverbial frugality of the 
monarch, his much too early rising as well as his veritable 
drudgery till late at night, besides, with the continued 
danger of his threatening undernourishment, nevertheless 
caused very doubtful comments. One certainly did not 
want to know what and how much the monarch had the 
grace to take in; one did not begrudge him a 'sufficient 1 
meal; also, one did not set out perhaps to deny him the 
necessary sleep; one was content if as a man and as a char- 
acter he only honored the name of his house and the nation 
and fulfilled his duty as a ruler. The telling of fairy tales 
was of little use, and it was all the more harmful.** 

However, this and many similar things were only trifles. 
But, unfortunately, the conviction that one was ruled any- 
how from above, and that the individual need not care for 
anything further, had a worse effect on very great parts of 
the nation. As long as the government was really good or 
at least had the best intentions, things might be all right. 
But alas! if in the place of the old government, which in it- 
self had good intentions, a new, less decent one, were to 
step in, then the irresolute obedience and the childlike 
faith were the most serious misfortune conceivable. 

But all these and many other weaknesses were set off 
also by undeniable values. 

There was the stability of the entire State authority, 
caused by the monarchistic State form, as well as the 
immunizing of the highest State posts from the turmoil of 
the speculations of ambitious politicians. Further, the 
respectability of the institution in itself, as well as the 
authority caused even by this; finally, the uplifting of the 
body of officials and especially of the army above the level 
of the obligations of political parties. To this was added 
the advantage of the personal representation of the head of 
the State by the monarch as a person, and the example of 
a responsibility which the monarch has to shoulder more 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 313 

than the accidental crowd of a parliamentary majority. 
(The proverbial incorruptibility of the German administra- 
tion was primarily due to this.) But finally the cultural 
value of the monarchy was a high one for the German peo- 
ple and it was well able to balance other disadvantages. 
The German monarchs 1 residential towns were still the 
abodes of an artistic sense which nevertheless threatens to 
die out more and more in our materialistic time. What the 
German princes did for art and science even during the 
nineteenth century was exemplary. In any case, the present 
time must not be compared with this. 



t But as the greatest factor of value, in this time of the 
beginning and slowly spreading decomposition of our na- 



Perhaps the German army is rivaled only by the French 
army as an historical institution. Both were developed during 
that heyday of European nationalism which coincided with 
the French Revolution. Both taught discipline, health, con- 
duct. But whereas the French look back upon a national 
history more or less continuous since the days of ancient Rome, 
the Germany of 1913 was still a country of peoples, almost of 
tribes, held together by military leaders. The heroes were 
Frederick the Great, Bismarck, Moltke; and however deeply 
any citizen might resent drill and warfare, he could not escape 
the fact that Germany was the army. 

That is why the abdication of the army in 1918 the trans- 
fer of authority and responsibility to a government without a 
military foundation was so appalling even to the men who 
took up the burden of government. They had suddenly, in 
an hour of demoralizing defeat, to find some principle of unity 
which was not military in character. To have succeeded would 
have meant, not merely the creation of a new Germany, but 
also the creation of a new ideology. And unfortunately most 
of the leaders had to face the fact that the majority of their 



384 MEIN KAMPF 

tional body, we have to list the army. It was the mightiest 
school of the German nation, and for no other reason did the 
hatred of all enemies direct itself precisely against this 
protection of national self-preservation and freedom. One 
cannot present a more glorious monument to this unique 
institution than the establishment of the truth that it was 
calumniated, hated, fought, but also feared, by all inferior 
people. That at Versailles the wrath of the international 
exploiters of the nation directed itself primarily against the 
old German army makes it all the more recognizable as the 
protection of the freedom of our people against the power 
of the stock exchange. Without this warning power, the 
meaning of Versailles would long have been executed upon 
our people. What the German people owes to the army may 
be simply summed up in one single word, namely: every- 
thing. 

The army trained for absolute responsibility at a time 
when this quality had become very rare and the shunning 
of responsibility had more and more become the order of 
the day, starting from the model example of all unscrupu- 
lousness, the parliament; the army further taught personal 
courage in a time when cowardice threatened to become a 
spreading disease, and when the willingness to sacrifice, to 
stand up for the general welfare, was almost looked upon 
as stupidity, and when only he seemed to be clever who un- 
derstood best how to spare himself and to advance his own 
'ego'; it was the school which still taught the individual 

supporters wanted, not something new, but the restoration 
of the old. Not to have foreseen these things was the tragic 
psychological blunder of Woodrow Wilson a blunder which 
was really worse than a crime. Wilson came from a people 
unified, as probably no other people has ever been, by an ac- 
cepted tradition of constitutional law; and he imagined that 
this happy situation could be exported to other lands. 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 385 

German to seek the salvation of the nation, not in the men- 
dacious phrases of international fraternity between negroes, 
Germans, Chinese, French, British, etc., but rather in the 
strength and the unity of his own nationality. 

The army taught determination, while otherwise in daily 
life lack of determination and doubt began to govern the 
actions of people. It actually meant something, at a time 
when the super-wise people set the fashion everywhere, of 
keeping up the principle that a command is still better than 
no command. In this sole principle was contained a still 
unspoiled, robust health which would long since have dis- 
appeared from the remainder of our life if the army and the 
education it gave had not provided for the continued re- 
newal of this primordial strength. One only has to see the 
terrible lack of determination of our present Reichs leaders 
who are not able to pull themselves together, unless they 
have to deal with the forced signing of a new dictate of ex- 
ploitation; in this case, of course, they decline all responsi- 
bility and with the speed of a court stenographer they sign 
everything that one may deem fit to put before them, for 
in this case the decision is easily taken: it is 'dictated* to 
them.-* 

The army further taught idealism and devotion to the 
fatherland and its greatness, while life had otherwise become 
the sole domain of greed and materialism. It educated a 
uniform people as compared with the separation into classes, 
and here it perhaps showed its only fault, the institution of 
the voluntary enlistment for one year. A fault for the rea- 
son that the principle of absolute equality was broken and 
the man with a higher education was lifted out of the frame 
of the general surroundings, while just the contrary would 
have been of advantage. With the seclusion from the 
world of our upper classes which was so great even then, as 
well as the always increasing estrangement from their own 
people, the army would have been able to have an especially 



386 MEIN KAMPF 

beneficial effect if in its ranks at least it avoided every 
separation of the so-called 'intelligentsia. 9 That this was 
not done was a mistake; but what institution in this world 
is without mistakes? With this institution the good sides 
were predominant to such an extent that the few ills were 
far below the average of human imperfection. 

But the greatest service of the army of the old Reich was 
that, in a time of the general 'counting by majority' of 
the heads, it put the heads above the majority. In the face 
of the Jewish democratic idea of a blind worship of numbers, 
the army upheld the faith in personality. Thus it also bred 
what the newer times need most of all: men. Yes, indeed, 
in the swamp of a generally spreading softening and ef- 
feminacy, out of the ranks of the army there shot up every 
year 350,000 vigorous young men who in two years' train- 
ing had lost the softness of youth and had gained bodies 
hard as steel. The young man, however, who during this 
time practiced obedience, also learned to give commands. 
Even by his step, one recognized the trained soldier. 

This was the high school of the German nation, and it 
was not for nothing that the grim hatred of those who, out 
of envy and greed, needed and desired the weakness of the 
Reich and the defenselessness of its citizens, was concen- 
trated on the army. What many Germans in blindness or 
malicious will did not wish to see, the foreign world recog- 
nized in the German army; the most powerful weapon in the 
service of the freedom of the German nation and the 
nourishment of her children. 



Added to the State form as well as to the army came, as 
the third in the alliance, the incomparable body of officials 
of the old Reich. 

Germany was the best organized and the best adminis- 
tered country in the world. One could well accuse it of 



THE CAUSES OF THE COLLAPSE 387 

bureaucratic red-tape, but this was no different in all the 
other States, even rather worse. But what the other States 
did not possess was the wonderful solidarity of this appara- 
tus as well as the incorruptible, honest loyalty of its repre- 
sentatives. Better to be a little pedantic, but honest and 
loyal, rather than enlightened and modern, but inferior of 
character, and, as is frequently shown today, ignorant and 
incompetent. For, if one likes to pretend that the German 
administration of the pre-War time was thought bureau- 
cratically genuine, but bad from the business point of view, 
to this one can answer only the following: Which land of the 
world had a better managed and commercially better or- 
ganized administration in her State railways than Ger- 
many? It was reserved only for the Revolution to destroy 
this model apparatus till finally it appeared ripe to be taken 
out of the hands of the nation and to become 'socialized' 
in the sense of the founders of this republic; that means, 
to serve the international stock exchange capital, the prin- 
cipal instigator of the German Revolution. 

What thereby distinguished especially the body of Ger- 
man officials and the apparatus of administration was its 
independence of the various governments whose political 
convictions were not able to exercise any influence on the 
position of German State officials. Since the Revolution, 
however, this has changed thoroughly. The place of com- 
petence and ability was taken by party conviction and a 
self-reliant and independent character was now an impedi- 
ment rather than an advantage. 

On the State form, the army and the body of officials 
rested the wonderful power and strength of the old Reich. 
These were primarily the causes of a quality which the pre- 
sent-day State lacks completely: the State authority! For 
this does not rest on drivel in the parliaments or diets, and 
also not on the laws for their protection, or on court sen- 
tences for the frightening of impudent deniers of this au- 



388 MEIN KAMPF 

thority, but on the general confidence which may and can 
be shown in the management and the administration of a 
community. But this confidence is in turn only the result 
of an unshakable inner conviction of the unselfishness and 
the honesty of the government and the administration of a 
country as well as of a harmony between the meaning of 
the law and general moral views. For, in the long run, 
government systems are not held together by the pressure 
of force, but rather by the belief in the quality and the 
truthfulness with which they represent and promote the 
interests of a people. 



Therefore, no matter how seriously certain evils of the 
pre-War time ate into the inner strength of the nation and 
threatened to hollow it out, one must not forget that other 
States suffered from these diseases still more than Ger- 
many, and that nevertheless in the critical hour of danger 
they did not fail and did not perish. But if one considers 
that the German weaknesses before the War were balanced 
by strong sides which were just as great, then the ultimate 
cause for the collapse can and must be found in still an- 
other field; and this was also the case. 

The deepest and the ultimate cause for the ruin of the 
old Reich was found in the non-recognition of the race 
problem and its importance for the historical development 
of the people. For events in the lives of the nations are not 
expressions of chance, but, by the laws of nature, happen- 
ings of the urge of self-preservation and propagation of 
species and race, even if the people are not conscious of the 
inner reasons for their activitv. 



CHAPTER XI 
NATION AND RACE 



are statements of truth which are so obvious 
that just for this reason the common world does not 
see, or at least does not recognize, them. At times 
the world passes these well-known truisms blindly and it is 
most astonished if now suddenly somebody discovers what 
everybody ought to know. The ' Columbus eggs ' are lying 
about by the hundreds of thousands, only the Columbuses 
are rarely seen. 

Thus, without exception, people wander about in Na- 
ture's garden; they think they know almost everything, 
and yet, with few exceptions, they walk blindly by one of 
the most outstanding principles of Nature's working: the 
inner seclusion of the species of all living beings on earth. 

Even the most superficial observation shows, as an 
almost brazen basic principle of all the countless forms 
of expression of Nature's will to live, her limited form of 
propagation and increase, limited in itself. Every animal 
mates only with a representative of the same species. The 
titmouse seeks the titmouse, the finch the finch, the stork 
the stork, the field mouse the field mouse, the common 
mouse the common mouse, the wolf the wolf, etc. 

Only exceptional circumstances can change this; first of 
all the compulsion of captivity, as well as any other impos- 



390 MEIN KAMPF 

sibility of mating within the same species. But then Nature 
begins to resist this with the help of all visible means, and 
her most visible protest consists either of denying the bas- 
tards further procreative faculty, or she limits the fertility 
of the coming offspring; but in most cases she takes away 
the capacity of resistance against disease or inimical at- 
tacks. 

This is then only too natural. 

Any crossing between two beings of not quite the same 
high standard produces a medium between the standards of 
the parents. That means: the young one will probably be 
on a higher level than the racially lower parent, but not as 
high as the higher one. Consequently, it will succumb later 
on in the fight against the higher level. But such a mating 
contradicts Nature's will to breed life as a whole towards a 
higher level. The presumption for this does not lie in blend- 
ing the superior with the inferior, but rather in a complete 
victory of the former. The stronger has to rule and he is 
not to amalgamate with the weaker one, that he may not 
sacrifice his own greatness. Only the born weakling can 
consider this as cruel, but at that he is only a weak and 
limited human being; for, if this law were not dominating, 
all conceivable development towards a higher level, on the 
part of all organically living beings, would be unthinkable 
for man. 

The consequence of this purity of the race, generally 
valid in Nature, is not only the sharp limitation of the races 
outwardly, but also their uniform character in themselves. 
The fox is always a fox, the goose a goose, the tiger a tiger, 
etc., and the difference can lie, at the most, in the different 
measure of strength, force, cleverness, skill, perseverance, 
etc., of the various specimens. But there will never be 
found a fox which, according to its inner nature, would per- 
haps have humane tendencies as regards the geese, nor will 
there be a cat with a friendly disposition towards mice. 



NATION AND RACE 391 

Therefore also, here the fight amongst one another 
originates less from reasons of inner aversion than from 
hunger and love. In both cases, Nature looks calm and even 
satisfied. The fight for daily bread makes all those suc- 
cumb who are weak, sickly, and less determined, while the 
males' fight for the female gives the right of propagation, 
or the possibility of it, only to the most healthy. But the 
fight is always a means for the promotion of the species' 
health and force of resistance, and thus a cause for its de- 
velopment towards a higher level. 

If it were different, every further development towards 
higher levels would stop, and rather the contrary would 
happen. For, since according to numbers, the inferior ele- 
ment always outweighs the superior element, under the 
same preservation of life and under the same propagating 
possibilities, the inferior element would increase so much 
more rapidly that finally the best element would be forced 
to step into the background, if no correction of this condi- 
tion were carried out. But just this is done by Nature, by 
subjecting the weaker part to such difficult living conditions 

This appeal to the sacred norm of the 'survival of the fittest* 
customary in Pan-German literature had been resorted 
to as well by critics of Socialism. The 'tearful sentimentality' 
of the humanitarians, forever attempting to salvage what had 
better be left to die, is denounced by Spengler and many others. 
But the application of 'fitness' to mating is something else 
entirely, deriving from Plato through a number of intermedi- 
aries some of whom can be sought out in modern anti-Semitic 
literature. There are considerable differences. Thus, Ludwig 
Schemann thinks that Nature does not mean the same thing 
by 'fitness* that man does, and that therefore any vigorous re- 
course to eugenics except in so far as purely negative matters 
(health, etc.) are concerned would prove impossible and 
impractical. Others have gone the whole way and advocated 
rigid public regulation of procreation. 



392 MEIN KAMPF 

that even by this the number is restricted, and finally by 
preventing the remainder, without choice, from increasing, 
but by making here a new and ruthless choice, according 
to strength and health. 

Just as little as Nature desires a mating between weaker 
individuals and stronger ones, far less she desires the mix- 
ing of a higher race with a lower one, as in this case her en- 
tire work of higher breeding, which has perhaps taken hun- 
dreds of thousands of years, would tumble at one blow. -4- 

Historical experience offers countless proofs of this. It 
shows with terrible clarity that with any mixing of the 
blood of the Aryan with lower races the result was the end 
of the culture-bearer. North America, the population of 
which consists for the greatest part of Germanic elements 
which mix only very little with the lower, colored races 
displays a humanity and a culture different from those of 
Central and South America, where chiefly the Romanic 
immigrants have sometimes mixed with the aborigines on a 
large scale. By this example alone one may clearly and dis- 
tinctly recognize the influence of the race mixture. The 
Germanic of the North American continent, who has re- 
mained pure and less intermixed, has become the master of 
that continent, he will remain so until he, too, falls victim 
to the shame of blood-mixing. 

f The result of any crossing, in brief, is always the follow- 
ing: 

(a) Lowering of the standard of the higher race, 

(&amp;) Physical and mental regression, and, with it, the be- 
ginning of a slowly but steadily progressive lingering ill- 
ness. 

To bring about such a development means nothing less 
than sinning against the will of the Eternal Creator. 

This action, then, is also rewarded as a sin. 

Man, by trying to resist this iron logic of Nature, be- 
comes entangled in a fight against the principles to which 



NATION AND RACE 393 

alone he, too, owes his existence as a human being. Thus 
his attack is bound to lead to his own doom. 

Of course, now comes the typically Jewish, impudent, 
but just as stupid, objection by the modern pacifist: 'Man 
conquers Nature!' 

Millions mechanically and thoughtlessly repeat this 
Jewish nonsense, and in the end they imagine that they 
themselves represent a kind of conqueror of Nature; 
whereas they have no other weapon at their disposal but 
an 'idea,' and such a wretched one at that, so that accord- 
ing to it no world would be conceivable. 

But quite apart from the fact that so far man has never 
conquered Nature in any affair, but that at the most he gets 
hold of and tries to lift a flap of her enormous, gigantic veil 
of eternal riddles and secrets, that in reality he does not 
'invent' anything but only discovers everything, that he 
does not dominate Nature, but that, based on the know- 
ledge of a few laws and secrets of Nature, he has risen to 
the position of master of those other living beings lacking 

The argument has been put another way by Professor Carl 
Schmitt (cited by Kolnai) : 'A universal organization in which 
there is no place for warlike preservation and destruction of 
human life would be neither a State nor an Empire : it would lose 
all political character/ Yet this is not Jewish but Christian 
teaching that is under criticism. Cardinal Faulhaber, meeting 
the objection that the Old Testament is filled with 'hymns of 
hate/ responded that Christianity had indeed changed those 
hymns into canticles of love, and added: 'There is no alterna- 
tive: either we are disciples of Christ, or we lapse into the 
Judaism of antiquity with its hymns of hate/ The letter which 
the evangelical churches addressed to Hitler in June, 1936, 
contained these words: 'When blood, race, creed, nationality 
and honor are thus raised to the rank of qualities that guarantee 
eternity, the Evangelical Christian is bound, by the first 
commandment, to reject the assumption/ 



394 MEIN KAMPF 

this knowledge; but quite apart from this, an idea cannot 
conquer the presumptions for the origin and the existence 
of mankind, as the idea itself depends only on man. With- 
out men there is no human 'idea' in this world; thus the 
idea is always caused by the presence of men, and, with it, 
of all those laws which created the presumptions for this 
existence. 

And not only that! Certain ideas are even tied to cer- 
tain men. This can be said most of all of just such thoughts 
the content of which has its origin, not in an exact scientific 
truth, but rather in the world of feeling, or, as one usually 
expresses oneself so nicely and 'clearly' today, which re- 
flects an 'inner experience.' All these ideas, which have 
nothing to do with clear logic in itself, but which represent 
mere expressions of feelings, ethical conceptions, etc., are 
tied to the existence of those men to whose spiritual force 
of imagination and creation they owe their own existence. 
But precisely in this case the preservation of these certain 
races and men is the presumption for the existence of these 
'ideas/ For example, he who actually desires, with all his 
heart, the victory of the pacifistic idea in this world would 
have to stand up, with all available means, for the conquest 
of the world by the Germans; for if it should come about the 
other way round, then, with the last German, the last 
pacifist would die off, as the other part of the world has 
hardly ever been taken in so deeply by this nonsense, ad- 
verse to nature and to reason, as unfortunately our own 
people. Therefore, whether one wanted to or not, if one 
had the serious will, one would have to decide to wage war in 
order to arrive at pacifism. This and nothing else was what 
the American world-redeemer Wilson wanted to have done, 
at least our German visionaries believed in this. With this, 
then, the purpose was fulfilled.-* 

Indeed, the pacifist-humane idea is perhaps quite good 
whenever the man of the highest standard has previously 



NATION AND RACE 395 

conquered and subjected the world to a degree that makes 
him the only master of this globe. Thus the idea is more and 
more deprived of the possibility of a harmful effect in the 
measure in which its practical application becomes rare and 
finally impossible. Therefore, first fight, and then one may 
see what can be done. In the other case, mankind has passed 
the climax of its development, and the end is not the rule of 
some ethical 'idea/ but barbarism, and, in consequence, 
chaos. Naturally, here the one or the other may laugh, but 
this planet has driven on its course through the ether for 
millions of years without men, and the day may come when 
it will do so again, if people forget that they owe their higher 
existence, not to the ideas of some crazy ideologists, but to 



The foregoing passages are derived in the main from Houston 
Stewart Chamberlain, but with nuances that suggest the 
influence of Rosenberg, or at least of the Free Corps which 
imported so much militaristic anti-Semitism into Germany 
after the War. For Chamberlain the moral superiority of the 
'Aryan* is undeniable; and therefore, if humanity is not to 
decline morally, it must hope for the victory of the 'Aryan* 
over lesser peoples. But Chamberlain is quite honest: for him 
a ' German ' and an ' Aryan ' are the same thing. He was bitterly 
disappointed when 1918 seemed to mean perpetual moral de- 
gradation for the human race. In his famous letter to Hitler, 
following their meeting in 1923, he wrote, therefore: 4 At one 
blow you have transformed the state my soul was in. Ger- 
many's vitality is proved if in this hour of its deepest need it 
can produce a Hitler/ Perhaps the basis of this attitude as a 
whole must be sought in those fears of an eventual 'war be- 
tween races' which were aired as early as the eighteenth cen- 
tury, but reached a kind of apogee during the nineteenth. 
Then the inferiority of the 'colored races ' was taken for granted, 
though the interest taken in a newly discovered Indian litera- 
ture, ascribed in theory to an ' Indo-Germanic invasion 9 of 
Asia, tended to make many place the Brahmins on a somewhat 



396 MEIN KAMPF 

the knowledge and the ruthless application of Nature's 
brazen laws. 

Everything that today we admire on this earth science 
and art, technique and inventions is only the creative 
product of a few peoples and perhaps originally of one race. 
On them now depends also the existence of this entire cul- 
ture. If they perish, then the beauty of this earth sinks 
into the grave with them. 

t No matter how much the soil, for instance, is able to in- 
fluence the people, the result will always be a different one, 
according to the races under consideration. The scanty 
fertility of a living space may instigate one race towards 
the highest achievements, while with another race this may 
only become the cause for the most dire poverty and ulti- 
mate malnutrition with all its consequences. The inner dis- 
position of the peoples is always decisive for the way in 
which outward influences work themselves out. What leads 
one people to starvation, trains the other for hard work. 

All great cultures of the past perished only because the 
originally creative race died off through blood-poisoning. 

The ultimate cause of such a decline was always the for- 
getting that all culture depends on men and not the re- 
verse; that means, that in order to save a certain culture the 
man who created it has to be saved. But the preservation 
is bound to the brazen law of necessity and of the right of 
the victory of the best and the strongest in this world. 

higher level. Later on the 'negroid characteristics' of the 
Mediterranean races were stressed by Pan-German writers. 
The Latin, the Catholic, was of highly questionable value. 
The Germanic Aryan had a right to dominate, and eventually 
he surely would. After the War the stress was shifted to the 
Jew, partly because French 'inferiority' had not been satis- 
factorily demonstrated, after all, and partly because the Free 
Corps encouraged the view that Jewry was responsible for 
Germany's acquiescence in Allied demands. 



NATION AND RACE 397 

He who wants to live should fight, therefore, and he who 
does not want to battle in this world of eternal struggle does 
not deserve to be alive. 

Even if this were hard, this is the way things are. But 
it is certain that by far the hardest fate is the fate which 
meets that man who believes he can 'conquer' Nature, and 
yet, in truth, only seems to mock her. Misery, distress, and 
diseases are then her answer! 

The man who misjudges and disdains the laws of race 
actually forfeits the happiness that seems destined to be his. 
He prevents the victorious march of the best race and with 
it also the presumption for all human progress, and in con- 
sequence he will remain in the domain of the animal's help- 
less misery, burdened with the sensibility of man. 



It is a futile enterprise to argue which race or races were 
the original bearers of human culture and, with it, the ac- 
tual founders of what we sum up with the word 'mankind.' 
It is simpler to put this question to oneself with regard to 
the present, and here the answer follows easily and dis- 
tinctly. What we see before us of human culture today, the 
results of art, science, and techniques, is almost exclusively 
the creative product of the Aryan. But just this fact admits 
of the not unfounded conclusion that he alone was the 
founder of higher humanity as a whole, thus the prototype 

This idyl of 'Aryan ' pre-history is interesting because of the 
definition of 'culture' that is involved. For 'culture' in this 
sense is once again become the principal concern of Europe. 
The 'Aryan' succeeds in pushing his way onward and upward 
by conquering lesser peoples and using them as 'helping forces' 
(slaves). Then, however, master and slave intermarry, and 
tho ' culture ' decays. Perhaps this is only an analogy borrowed 
from some pictorial history of European colonizing effort: 
perhaps it is more philosophical. Spengler had taught in 



398 MEIN KAMPF 

of what we understand by the word 'man.' He is the 
Prometheus of mankind, out of whose bright forehead 
springs the divine spark of genius at all times, forever re- 
kindling that fire which in the form of knowledge lightened 
up the night of silent secrets and thus made man climb the 
path towards the position of master of the other beings on 
this earth. Exclude him and deep darkness will again fall 
upon the earth, perhaps even, after a few thousand years, 
human culture would perish and the world would turn 
into a desert. -4- 

If one were to divide mankind into three groups: culture- 
founders, culture-bearers, and culture-destroyers, then, as 
representative of the first kind, only the Aryan would come 
in question. It is from him that the foundation and the 
walls of all human creations originate, and only the external 
form and color depend on the characteristics of the various 
peoples involved. He furnishes the gigantic building-stones 
and also the plans for all human progress, and only the exe- 
cution corresponds to the character of the people and races 
in the various instances. In a few decades, for instance, the 
entire east of Asia will call a culture its own, the ultimate 
bases of which will be Hellenic spirit and Germanic tech- 
nique, just as is the case with us. Only the external form 
will (at least partly) bear the features of Asiatic character. 
It is not the case, as some people claim, that Japan adds 
European techniques to her culture, but European science 
and techniques are trimmed with Japanese characteristics. 

the Decline of the West that cultures arise and fall cyclically; 
and Hitler here provides a convenient illustration of why 
they fall. Therewith the riddle proposed by Spengler is solved; 
the 'culture-making' folk is that which, obeying the law that 
only the fittest survive, embarks on conquest and exploitation; 
and the 'culture-destroying folk 9 is the slave breed which 
tempts the aristocratic group into intermarriage. This i 
Nietzsche materialized. 



NATION AND RACE 399 

But the basis of actual life is no longer the special Japanese 
culture, although it determines the color of life (because out- 
wardly, in consequence of its inner difference, it is more 
visible to European eyes), but it is the enormous scientific 
and technical work of Europe and America, that is, of 
Aryan peoples. Based on these achievements alone the 
East is also able to follow general human progress. This 
creates the basis for the fight for daily bread, it furnishes 
weapons and tools for it, and only the external makeup is 
gradually adapted to Japanese life. 

But if, starting today, all further Aryan influence upon 
Japan should stop, and supposing that Europe and America 
were to perish, then a further development of Japan's 
present rise in science and technology could take place for a 
little while longer; but in the time of a few years the source 
would dry out, Japanese life would gain, but its culture 
would stiffen and fall back into the sleep out of which it was 
startled seven decades ago by the Aryan wave of culture. 
Therefore, exactly as the present Japanese development 
owes its life to Aryan origin, thus also in the dim past 
foreign influence and foreign spirit were the awakener of the 
Japanese culture. The best proof of this is the fact that the 
latter stiffened and became completely paralyzed later on. 
This can only happen to a people when the originally crea- 
tive race nucleus was lost, or when the external influence, 
which gave the impetus and the material for the first de- 
velopment in the cultural field, was lacking later on. But 
if it is ascertained that a people receives, takes in, and works 
over the essential basic elements of its culture from other 
races, and if then, when a further external influence is lack- 
ing, it stiffens again and again, then one can perhaps call 
such a race a 'culture-bearing' one but never a 'culture-cre- 
ating' one. 

An examination of the various peoples from this view- 
point evidences the fact that in nearly all cases one has to 



400 MEIN KAMPF 

deal, not with originally culture-creating, but rather always 
with culture-supporting peoples. 

It is always about the following picture of their develop- 
ment that presents itself: 

Aryan tribes (often in a really ridiculously small number 
of their own people) subjugate foreign peoples, and now, 
stimulated by the special living conditions of the new terri- 
tory (fertility, climatic conditions, etc.) and favored by the 
mass of the helping means in the form of people of inferior 
kind now at their disposal, they develop the mental and 
organizatory abilities, slumbering in them. Often, in the 
course of a few millenniums or even centuries, they create 
cultures which originally completely bear the inner features 
of their character, adapted to the already mentioned special 
qualities of the soil as well as of the subjected people. 
Finally, however, the conquerors deviate from the purity of 
their blood which they maintained originally, they begin to 
mix with the subjected inhabitants and thus they end their 
own existence; for the fall of man in Paradise has always 
been followed by expulsion from it. 

f Often, after a thousand and more years, the last visible 
trace of the one-time overlords is shown in the fairer com- 
plexion which their blood has left, in the form of the color, 
to the subjected race, and in a petrified culture which they 
had founded as the original creators. For, just as the actual 
and spiritual conqueror lost himself in the blood of the sub- 
jected, thus also the fuel for the torch of human culture 
progress was lost! As through the blood the color of the 
former masters keeps a faint glimmer as a memory of them, 
thus also the night of the cultural life is faintly brightened 
by the creations that remained of the erstwhile bearers of 
light. These now shone through all the barbarism that has 
returned, and in the thoughtless observer of the moment 
they awaken only too frequently the opinion that he sees 
the picture of the present people, whereas it is only the mir- 
ror of the past at which he is looking. 



NATION AND RACE 401 

Then it may happen that such a people for a second time, 
nay, even more often in the life of its history, comes into 
touch with the race of its one-time suppliers of culture, 
without a memory of former meetings necessarily being 
present. The remainder of the blood of the one-time mas- 
ters will unconsciously turn to the new apparition, and what 
first was only possible by compulsion will now succeed with 
the help of their own will. Then a new culture wave makes 
its entrance and lasts until its bearers have once more been 
submerged in the blood of foreign peoples. 

It will be the task of a future culture and world history 
to make researches in this sense and not to suffocate by re- 
flecting external facts, as this is unfortunately only too 
often the case with our present science of history. 

Merely from this sketch of the development of ' culture- 
bearing' nations results also the picture of the origin, the 
work, and the decline of the true culture-creators of this 
globe, the Aryans themselves. 

Just as in daily life the so-called genius requires a special 

No definition of the word 'Aryan* is acceptable. German 
lexicographers were hard pressed to hit upon an accurate 
description. The term itself is probably of Sanskrit origin, 
and seems to have meant 'friends/ It was next assumed that 
these 'friends' were Indo-Germans, who (it was further as- 
sumed) had invaded India and subjugated the 'lesser breeds/ 
Finally 'Aryan* became just a synonym for 'Indo-German.' 
The 1931 edition of the encyclopedia Der grosse Herder said: 
'Recently some have used (ethnologically, in an incorrect way) 
'Aryan* to indicate Indo-Germans in general. In this case, 
the term is used as in the nature of a slogan in the struggle 
over the self-determination and preservation of our race against 
Jewry, which is of a different order.' For this and similar 
definitions (surely discreet enough), the earlier volumes of this 
encyclopedia were ordered withdrawn from circulation. In 
practice the word is officially used today as a racial term 



402 MEIN KAMPF 

cause, often even a real impetus in order to be made con- 
spicuous, the same is also the case with the ingenious race 
in the life of the peoples. In the monotony of everyday life 
even important people often seem unimportant and they 
hardly stand out over the average of their surroundings; 
but as soon as they are faced by a situation in which others 
would despair or go wrong, out of the plain average child 
the ingenious nature grows visibly, not infrequently to the 
astonishment of all those who hitherto had an opportunity 
to observe him, who had meanwhile grown up in the small- 
ness of bourgeois life, and therefore, in consequence of this 
process, the prophet has rarely any honor in his own coun- 
try. Never is there a better opportunity to observe this 
than during war. In the hours of distress, when others de- 
spair, out of apparently harmless children, there shoot sud- 
denly heroes of death-defying determination and icy cool- 
ness of reflection. If this hour of trial had never come, then 
hardly anyone would ever have been able to guess that a 
young hero is hidden in the beardless boy. Nearly always 
such an impetus is needed in order to call genius into action. 



excluding Jews and negroes. The second are frowned upon 
because (i.a.) they are admitted into the French army; and 
because, it is hoped, sympathy for the Nazi cause may be 
thus awakened among Southerners in the United States. 
Delegations of 'Brahmins 1 have, however, been cordially 
welcomed to the New Germany. 

Parallels to this can be found in the writings of Pan-Germans 
like Heinrich Class and Count Reventlow. In an address 
delivered during 1932, Hitler declared; 'Let them call us in- 
human! If we save Germany, we shall have done the greatest 
deed in the world. Let them call us unjust! If we save Ger- 
many, we shall have repaired the greatest injustice in the 
world. Let them say that we are without morality! If our 
people is saved, we shall have paved the way for morality!' 



NATION AND RACE 403 

Fate's hammer stroke, which then throws the one to the 
ground, suddenly strikes steel in another, and while now the 
shell of everyday life is broken, the erstwhile nucleus lies 
open to the eyes of the astonished world. The latter now re- 
sists and does not want to believe that the apparently 
'identical' kind is now suddenly supposed to be a 'differ- 
ent' being; a process which repeats itself with every eminent 
human being. 

Although an inventor, for instance, establishes his fame 
only on the day of his invention, one must not think that 
perhaps his genius in itself had entered the man only just 
at this hour, but the spark of genius will be present in the 
forehead of the truly creatively gifted man from the hour of 
his birth, although for many years in a slumbering condi- 
tion and therefore invisible to the rest of the world. But 
some day, through an external cause or impetus of some 
kind, the spark becomes fire, something that only then be- 
gins to stir the attention of other people. The most stupid 
of them believe now in all sincerity that the person in ques- 
tion has just become 'clever,' whereas in reality they them- 
selves now begin at last to recognize his greatness; for true 
genius is always inborn and never acquired by education or, 
still less, by learning. 

This, however, may be said, as already stressed, not only 
for the individual man, but also for the race.-*- Creatively 
active peoples are creatively gifted from the very bottom 
and forever, although this may not be recognizable to the 
eyes of the superficial observer. Here, too, external recogni- 
tion is always only possible as a consequence of accom- 
plished facts, as the rest of the world is not able to recognize 
genius in itself, but sees only its visible expressions in the form 
of inventions, discoveries, buildings, pictures, etc. ; but even 
here it often takes a long time till it is able to struggle 
through to this knowledge. Exactly as in the life of the in- 
dividual important man his genius or extraordinary ability 



404 MEIN KAMPF 

strives towards its practical realization only when urged on 
by special occasions, thus also in the life of the peoples the 
real use of creative forces and abilities that are present 
can take place only when certain presumptions invite to 
this. 

We see this most clearly in that race that cannot help 
having been, and being, the supporter of the development 
of human culture the Aryans. As soon as Fate leads them 
towards special conditions, their latent abilities begin to 
develop in a more and more rapid course and to mold them- 
selves into tangible forms. The cultures which they found 
in such cases are nearly always decisively determined by the 
available soil, the climate, and by the subjected people. 
The latter, however, is the most decisive of all factors. The 
more primitive the technical presumptions for a cultural 
activity are, the more necessary is the presence of human 
auxiliary forces which then, collected and applied with the 
object of organization, have to replace the force of the ma- 
chine. Without this possibility of utilizing inferior men, the 
Aryan would never have been able to take the first steps 
towards his later culture; exactly as, without the help of 
various suitable animals which he knew how to tame, he 
would never have arrived at a technology which now allows 
him to do without these very animals. The words 'Der 
Mohr hoi seine Schuldigkeit getan, er kann gehen' [The Moor 
has done his duty, he may go] has unfortunately too deep a 
meaning. For thousands of years the horse had to serve man 
and to help in laying the foundations of a development 
which now, through the motor-car, makes the horse itself 
superfluous. In a few years it will have ceased its activity, 
but without its former co-operation man would hardly 
have arrived at where he stands today. 

Therefore, for the formation of higher cultures, the exist- 
ence of inferior men was one of the most essential presump- 
tions, because they alone were able to replace the lack of 



NATION AND RACE 405 

technical means without which a higher development is un- 
thinkable. The first culture of mankind certainly depended 
less on the tamed animal, but rather on the use of inferior 
people. 

Only after the enslavement of subjected races, the same 
fate began to meet the animals, and not vice versa, as many 
would like to believe. For first the conquered walked be- 
hind [in later editions read : before] the plow and after 
him, the horse. Only pacifist fools can again look upon 
this as a sign of human baseness, without making clear 
to themselves that this development had to take place 
in order to arrive finally at that place from where today 
these apostles are able to sputter forth their drivel into the 
world. 

The progress of mankind resembles the ascent on an end- 
less ladder; one cannot arrive at the top without first hav- 
ing taken the lower steps. Thus the Aryan had to go the 
way which reality showed him and not that of which the 
imagination of a modern pacifist dreams. The way of real- 
ity, however, is hard and difficult, but it finally ends where 
the other wishes to bring mankind by dreaming, but un- 
fortunately removes it from, rather than brings it nearer to, it. 

Therefore, it is no accident that the first cultures origi- 
nated in those places where the Aryan, by meeting lower 
peoples, subdued them and made them subject to his will. 
They, then, were the first technical instrument in the serv- 
ice of a growing culture. 

With this the way that the Aryan had to go was clearly 
lined out. As a conqueror he .subjected the lower peoples 
and then he regulated their practical ability according to 
his command and his will and for his aims. But while he 
thus led them towards a useful, though hard activity, he 
not only spared the lives of the subjected, but perhaps he 
even gave them a fate which was better than that of their 
former so-called ' freedom/ As long as he kept up ruthlessly 



406 MEIN KAMPF 

the master's standpoint, he not only really remained 'mas- 
ter* but also the preserver and propagator of the culture. 
For the latter was based exclusively on his abilities, and, 
with it, on his preservation in purity. But as soon as the 
subjected peoples themselves began to rise (probably) and 
approached the conqueror linguistically, the sharp separat- 
ing wall between master and slave fell. The Aryan gave up 
the purity of his blood and therefore he also lost his place 
in the Paradise which he had created for himself. He be- 
came submerged in the race-mixture, he gradually lost his 
cultural ability more and more, till at last not only mentally 
but also physically he began to resemble more the sub- 
jected and aborigines than his ancestors. For some time he 
may still live on the existing cultural goods, but then petri- 
faction sets in, and finally oblivion. 

In this way cultures and realms collapse in order to make 
room for new formations. 

The blood-mixing, however, with the lowering of the 
racial level caused by it, is the sole cause of the dying-off 
of old cultures; for the people do not perish by lost wars, 
but by the loss of that force of resistance which is contained 
only in the pure blood. 

All that is not race in this world is trash. 

All world historical events, however, are only the expres- 
sion of the races' instinct of self-preservation in its good or 
in its evil meaning. 



That is, security is better than freedom. And security, 
carried to its ultimate in the 'total mobilization 9 of the nation, 
is very well analyzed by Rauschning. The masses still cling 
to the residue of personal liberty, of self-determination, which 
has been left to them. Yet all such things must disappear com- 
pletely before the absolute 'security' which is the inherent ob- 
jective of the Hitlerite revolution has been reached. 



NATION AND RACE 407 

t The question about the inner causes of the overwhelming 
importance of Aryanism can be answered to the effect that 
they are to be sought less in a greater potentiality of the 
instinct of self-preservation in itself, than in the special 
way in which the latter expresses itself. The will to live, 
looked at subjectively, is the same everywhere and it is dif- 
ferent only in the form of its actual effect. With the most 
original living beings the instinct of self-preservation does 
not go beyond the care for their own 'ego.' Here the i ego- 
ism,' as we call this urge, goes so far that it even comprises 
time, so that the moment itself claims everything and be- 
grudges everything to the coming hours. The animal lives 
in this state only for itself, seeks food only whenever it 
feels hungry, and fights only for its own life. But as long as 
the instinct of self-preservation expresses itself in this way, 
every basis for the formation of a community, be it even 
the most primitive form of the family, is lacking. Even the 
community between male and female, beyond the mere 
mating, requires a broadening of the instinct of self-preser- 
vation, as now the care for their own 'ego' extends also 
to the other part; sometimes the male seeks food for the 
female, but not infrequently both of them for the young 
ones. Nearly always the one steps in for the protection of 
the other, so that here the first though infinitely simple 
forms of a readiness to sacrifice present themselves. As 
soon as this instinct extends beyond the limits of the narrow 
frame of the family, the prerequisite for the formation of 
greater unions and finally formal States is given. 

With the lowest people of the earth we find this quality 
only to a very small extent, so that often nothing but a 
family is formed. The greater the individual's readiness to 
subordinate his own purely personal interests is, the more 
increases also the ability for the establishment of extensive 
communities. 

This will to sacrifice in staking his personal labor and, if 



408 MEIN KAMPF 

necessary, his own life for others, is most powerfully de- 
veloped in the Aryan. He is greatest, not in his mental 
capacities per se, but in the extent to which he is ready to 
put all his abilities at the service of the community. With 
him the instinct of self-preservation has reached the most 
noble form, because he willingly subjects his own ego to 
the life of the community and, if the hour should require it, 
he also sacrifices it. 

Not in the intellectual abilities lies the Aryan's culture- 
creating and building ability. If he had only these, he 
would always be able to work only destructively, but in no 
case 'organizingly'; for the innermost nature of all organ- 
ization is based on just the fact that the individual re- 
nounces representing his personal opinion and his interests 
and sacrifices both in favor of a majority of people. Only 

The Aryan is therefore the best soldier. But he will also be 
the best 'worker,' in the sense adopted by Prussian Socialism, 
which is in theory a system rewarding men on the basis of the 
service they render the State, the community, as a whole. 
Today the world confronts the fact that German labor has, 
by and large, acquiesced in this theory. Its former Marxism has 
to a large extent been shuffled off; and perhaps it was the 
most fundamental characteristic of that Marxism that it 
based a conception of class warfare on an assumption of uni- 
versally valid human rights. The individual worker was held 
entitled to certain inalienable privileges, and for the sake of 
these the struggle against a society that refused to grant them 
was imperative. But just because Marxism respected human 
rights however secularistic its understanding of them 
may have been its revolutionary initiative was necessarily 
lamed. The shock which the best German Socialists felt 
when they confronted the Bolshevist regime was the result 
of their feeling that Lenin had betrayed the fundamental 
creed of Marxism. He had sold the faith in order to dominate. 
The Third Reich began by depriving the German worker of 



NATION AND RACE 409 

by way of the general community is his share returned to 
him. Now, for instance, he no longer works directly for 
himself, but with his activity he joins in the frame of the 
community, not only for his own advantage, but for that of 
all. The most wonderful explanation of this disposition is 
offered by his word 'work/ by which he does not mean an 
activity for gaining his living, but only a creative toil that 
does not contradict the interests of the community. In the 
other case he calls the human activity, in so far as it does 
not serve the instinct of self-preservation without consid- 
eration for the welfare of the contemporary world, by the 
words theft, usury, robbery, burglary, etc. 

This disposition now, which causes the individual's ego 
to step back in the face of the preservation of the commun- 
ity, is really the first prerequisite for any truly human cul- 
ture. Only out of this all the great works of mankind are 
able to originate, works which bring little reward to the 

exactly what the Third Internationale had taken from him 
freedom of assembly, traditional organizations, the right to 
designate his leaders. But it manifested, in a manner in which 
the Republic could not manifest, its need for workers. And 
therewith (despite all material privations, such as bad bread, 
lack of fats, lower pay, harder work) the way was prepared 
for a revolution of the working class a revolution the dim 
outlines of which undoubtedly fascinate the German toiler 
today. For by abolishing the individual, the Third Reich 
automatically created the mass. And by establishing dominion, 
power, as the sole ethical norm, it automatically created a 
longing for power on a scale hitherto unknown. Sooner or 
later the two the new masses, and the new ethical absolute 
must coincide. Marxism is out of date in Germany, there- 
fore, simply because the theory of human rights is out of date. 
With that those who have destroyed Marxism will have to 
reckon. (Cf. Dcr Arbcitcr: Herrschaft und Gestalt, by Rrn$t 
Jtinger.) 



410 MEIN KAMPF 

founder but the richest blessing to posterity. Out of this 
alone one can understand how so many are able to sustain 
a poor life in honesty, which imposes only poverty and mod- 
esty on themselves, but which guarantees the fundamen- 
tals of the community's existence. Every laborer, every 
peasant, every inventor, official, etc., who works without 
ever being able to attain happiness and well-being, is a 
carrier of this high idea, even if the deeper meaning of his 
actions remained hidden to himself forever. 

But what applies to work as the basis of human nutrition 
and all human progress applies to a far greater extent to the 
protection of man and his culture. In giving up one's own 
life for the existence of the community lies the crowning of 
all will to sacrifice. Only this prevents everything that 
human hands have built from being overthrown again by 
human hands, or destroyed by Nature for herself. &lt; 

But just our German language has a word which in a 
glorious manner describes acting in this sense: fulfillment of 
duty (Pflichterfiillung) ; that means, not to suffice for one- 
self, but to serve the community; this is duty. 

Now the basic disposition out of which such an activity 
grows we call idealism, to distinguish it from egoism. By 
this we understand only the individual's ability to sacrifice 
himself for the community, for his fellow citizens, 
t But how necessary is it to recognize again and again that 
idealism is not perhaps superfluous or even dispensable 
expression of feeling, but that in truth it was, is, and will be 
the prerequisite for what we call human culture; indeed, 
that idealism alone has created the notion 'man.' To this 
inner attitude the Aryan owes his position in the world, and 
to it the world owes man; for this attitude alone has shaped 
the mere intellect into the creative force which now, in its 
unique blending of the crude fist with ingenious intellect, 
has created the monuments of human culture. 

Without its ideal attitude all, even the most brilliant, abil- 



NATION AND RACE 411 

ities of the intellect would only be intellect in itself, but 
never creative force, outward appearance without inner 
value. 

But as true idealism is nothing but subjecting the indi- 
vidual's interest and life to the community, and as this 
again represents the presumptions for any kind of creative 
organizing forms, therefore in its very heart it corresponds 
to the ultimate will of Nature. Idealism alone leads men 
to voluntary acknowledgment of the privilege of force and 
strength and thus makes them become a dust particle of 
that order which forms and shapes the entire universe. 

Purest idealism is unconsciously deepest knowledge. 

How much this applies and how little genuine idealism 
has to do with playful imagination one can recognize imme- 
diately if the unspoilt child, the healthy boy, is permitted 
to judge. The same boy who is nauseated by the drivel of 
an * ideal ' pacifist is ready to throw away his young life for 
the ideal of his nationality. 

Here the instinct of realization unconsciously obeys the 
deeper necessity of the preservation of the species, if neces- 
sary at the expense of the individual, and it protests against 
the visions of the pacifist babbler who in reality as a 
crudely made-up yet cowardly egoist trespasses against the 
laws of development; for the latter is conditioned by the 
individual's willingness to sacrifice himself in favor of the 



Someone has written: 'Suffer the little children to come 
unto me; for theirs is the kingdom of death. 1 Three months 
after Hitler's rise to power, the traveler through Germany 
could see in school play-yards tots of four and five with sticks 
on their shoulders, going through military evolutions at the 
command of a drill-master. Austria, in the days following 
the Anschluss, was patrolled by boys of upper grammar school 
and high school age. They were armed with rifles and drawn 
bayonets. 



412 MEIN KAMPF 

community and not by sickly imagination on the part of 
cowardly know-alls and critics of Nature, 

Just in such times, when the ideal attitude threatens to 
disappear, we can at once recognize a reduction of that 
force which forms the community and thus gives culture its 
presumption. As soon as egoism becomes the ruler of a na- 
tion, the ties of order loosen, and in the hunt for their own 
happiness people fall all the more out of heaven into hell. 

Even posterity forgets those men who only serve their 
own advantage, and it praises as heroes those who renounce 
their own happiness. &lt; 



The Jew forms the strongest contrast to the Aryan. 
Hardly in any people of the world is the instinct of self- 
preservation more strongly developed than in the so-called 
'chosen people/ The fact of the existence of this race alone 
may be looked upon as the best proof of this. Where is the 
people that in the past two thousand years has been ex- 
posed to so small changes of the inner disposition, of char- 
acter, etc., as the Jewish people? Which people finally has 
experienced greater changes than this one and yet has 
always come forth the same from the most colossal catas 
trophes of mankind? What an infinitely persistent will for 
life, for preserving the race do these facts disclose! 

Also the intellectual abilities were schooled in the course 
of centuries. Today the Jew is looked upon as 'clever,' and 
in a certain sense he has been so at all times. But his reason 
is not the result of his own development, but that of object 
lessons from without. For also the human mind is not able 
to climb the heights without steps; for every step forward 
he needs the foundation of the past, and, moreover, in that 
comprehensive meaning which can be revealed only through 
general culture. All thinking will rest only to a very small 
extent on one's own realization, but to the greater extent 



NATION AND RACE 413 

on the experiences of the time past. The general level of 
culture supplies the individual, mostly without his noticing 
this, with such a profusion of preliminary knowledge that 
now, armed in this manner, he can set out towards further 
steps of his own. The young boy of today, for instance, 
grows up among a truly vast number of technical achieve- 
ments of the past few centuries that now, as being matters 
of course, he no longer pays attention to many things which 
were still a riddle to great minds a hundred years ago, 
though for the follow-up and the understanding of our 
progress in this field it is of decisive importance for him. 
If today even a genius of the twenties of the past century 
were suddenly to leave his grave, he would find it much 
harder to make his way about in the present time than this 
is the case of an average boy of fifteen of today. For he 
would lack all the infinite prerequisites which the individual 
takes in, so to speak, unconsciously, during his adolescence 
in the midst of the general culture of the corresponding time. 
As now the Jew (for reasons which will immediately be- 
come evident from the following) was never in the pos- 
session of a culture of his own, the bases for his spiritual 



'The Jews, 1 said Chamberlain, 'are neither a race nor a 

people They are the unique example of a purely parasitic 

product of decay.' This point of view is based to a certain ex- 
tent on a corrupt reading of a sentence in Mommsen's Roman 
History, which reads: 'In the Old World, too, Jewry was an 
active ferment of cosmopolitanism and national decomposition, 
and was for that reason a preferred full-fledged member in the 
Caesarian States, the politics of which were in truth nothing 
but cosmopolitanism, and the folkdom of which was essentially 
nothing else than humanity/ Mommsen meant that the Jews, 
uprooted from their Fatherland, lived everywhere and served 
as links to tie Rome to the provinces. Chamberlain built up an 
elaborate theory to account for this 'parasitic product.' The 



414 MEIN KAMPF 

activity have always been furnished by others. At all times 
his intellect has developed through the culture that sur- 
rounds him* 

Never did the reverse process take place, 
t For, even if the Jewish people's instinct of self-preserva- 
tion is not smaller, but rather greater, than that of other 
nations, and even if his spiritual abilities very easily create 
the impression as though they were equal to the intel- 
lectual disposition of the other races, yet the most essential 
presumption for a cultured people is completely lacking, the 
idealistic disposition. 

In the Jewish people, the will to sacrifice oneself does not 
go beyond the bare instinct of self-preservation of the indi- 
vidual. The seemingly great feeling of belonging together 
is rooted in a very primitive herd instinct, as it shows itself 

Jews were, he thought, a race mixed with other races too 
diverse in character to permit assimilation. They had married 
with Arabs and Syrians, and were as a result degenerate. 
Original sin as described in the Old Testament was, he held, 
only the 'sin of blood* i.e., the sin of intermarriage with 
inferior breeds. Few Nazis prior to 1933 put much faith in 
these teachings, at which Ernst Roehm is known to have 
laughed. To them Jew baiting was merely a highly effective 
form of drumming up prejudice against the hated Republic, 
which had given jobs to Rathenau, Eisner, Hilferding, and 
others. Even today one hears honest Nazi dissent from the 
official anti-Semitism, but this is probably more or less in- 
grained in youth. There was abundant protest against the 
November pogroms, but little of it was publicly manifested. 

The popular readiness to be stirred to a passion over the 
Jews witness the 'Juda vcrrecke' (May the Jews die) out- 
cry which the youth organizations in particular have taken 
up seems based partly on willingness to detest all things 
not strictly German (a consequence, no doubt, of the disap- 
pointments and privations that followed the War) and partly 



NATION AND RACE 415 

in a similar way in many other living beings in this world. 
Thereby the fact is remarkable that in all these cases a 
common herd instinct leads to mutual support only as long 
as a common danger makes this seem useful or unavoidable. 
The same pack of wolves that jointly falls upon its booty 
dissolves when its hunger abates. The same is true of 
horses, which try to ward off the attacker in common, and 
which fly in different directions when the danger is gone. 

With the Jew the case is similar. His will to sacrifice is 
only ostensible. It endures only as long as the existence of 
the individual absolutely requires this. However, as soon as 
the common enemy is beaten and the danger threatening 
all is averted, the booty recovered, the apparent harmony 
among the Jews themselves ceases to make way again for 



on economic unrest. The Jew was represented as one who pro- 
fited by the inflation, or as the major cause of business and 
professional competition. But it is difficult to make a good 
argument to show Jewish economic dominance in pre-Hitler 
Germany, nor as Jewish cultural influence noteworthy outside 
Berlin. What can be said is that an unwise cult of publicity 
sometimes overstressed the importance of individual Jews. 
Many believed that anti-Semitic propaganda could be stopped 
if it were shown that Jews had contributed a great deal to the 
reputation of Germany abroad. Almost precisely the opposite 
effect was achieved. For a digest of statistics concerning the 
Jew in business, cultural and professional life, cf. The Jews in 
Nazi Germany, edited by the American Jewish Committee. 

A somewhat better case could be made out against the Jewish 
proletariat, since it was largely recruited from eastern Europe 
and was not immediately able to throw off the manners of the 
ghetto. But it was far too small and too isolated to be a factor 
of importance in German life, excepting as a source whence 
certain types of photography might be derived. The labor 
groups, both Marxist and Christian, frowned upon anti-Semi- 
tism. 



416 MEIN KAMPF 

the inclinations originally present. The Jew remains united 
only if forced by a common danger or is attracted by a com- 
mon booty; if both reasons are no longer evident, then the 
qualities of the crassest egoism come into their own, and, in 
a moment, the united people becomes a horde of rats, fight- 
ing bloodily among themselves. 

If the Jews were alone in this world, they would suffocate 
as much in dirt and filth, as they would carry on a detest- 
able struggle to cheat and to ruin each other, although the 
complete lack of the will to sacrifice, expressed in their 
cowardice, would also in this instance make the fight a 
comedy. &lt; 

Thus it is fundamentally wrong to conclude, merely from 
the fact of their standing together in a fight, or, more rightly 
expressed, in their exploiting their fellow human beings, 
that the Jews have a certain idealistic will to sacrifice them- 
selves. 

Here, too, the Jew is led by nothing but pure egoism on 
the part of the individual. 

Therefore also the Jewish 'State* (which is supposed to 
be the living organism for the preservation and the propa- 
gation of the race) is territorially completely unlimited. 
For a certain limitation of a State formation by space always 
presupposes an idealistic attitude by the State race, espe- 
cially above all a correct conception of the notion 'work/ 
In the same measure in which this attitude is lacking or 
absent, every attempt at a formation or even at the preser- 
vation of a territorially limited State fails. But with this 
also the basis on which a culture alone can originate is 
eliminated. 

For this reason, however, the Jewish people, with all its 
apparent intellectual qualities, is nevertheless without any 
true culture, especially without a culture of its own. For 
the sham culture which the Jew possesses today is the 
property of other peoples, and is mostly spoiled in his hands. 



NATION AND RACE 417 

t When judging Jewry in its attitude towards the question 
of human culture, one has to keep before one's eye as an 
essential characteristic that there never has been and con- 
sequently that today also there is no Jewish art; that above 
all the two queens of all arts, architecture and music, owe 
nothing original to Jewry. What he achieves in the field of 
art is either bowdlerization or intellectual theft. With this, 
the Jew lacks those qualities which distinguish creatively 
and, with it, culturally blessed races. 

But how far the Jew takes over foreign culture, only imi- 
tating, or rather destroying, it, may be seen from the fact 
that he is found most frequently in that art which also 
appears directed least of all towards invention of its own, 
the art of acting. But here, too, he is really only the 'jug- 
gler/ or rather the ape; for here, too, he lacks the ultimate 
touch of real greatness; here, too, he is not the ingenious 
creator, but the outward imitator, whereby all the turns 
and tricks he applies cannot deceive us concerning the inner 
lack of life of his creative ability. Here the Jewish press 
alone comes lovingly to his aid, because about every, even 
the most mediocre, bungler, ^provided that he is a Jew, it 
raises such a clamor of hosannas that the rest of the world 
finally actually believes that it sees a real artist before its 

The statement that there had been no Jewish art in olden 
times is highly questionable. Historians of liturgical art now 
believe that the decorative schemes of early Christain churches 
may have been derived in part from the Synagogue. At all 
events, the Gregorian Chant certainly owes much to ancient 
Jewish music. To term all modern Jewish art 'derivative* 
is injudicious, particularly in Germany, as witness Max Lieber- 
mann in painting and Erich Mendelsohn in architecture. 

Modern Jewish stars of the stage include Elisabeth Bergner, 
Max Pallenberg, and Fritz Kortner. The most famous Jewish 
theatrical director was Max Reinhardt. 



418 MEIN KAMPF 

eyes, whereas in reality it has only to deal with a wretched 
comedian. 

No, the Jew possesses no culture-creating energy what- 
soever, as the idealism, without which there can never 
exist a genuine development of man towards a higher level, 
does not and never did exist in him. His intellect, there- 
fore, will never have a constructive effect, but only a de- 
structive one, and in very rare cases it is perhaps stimulat- 
ing, at the utmost, but then in the form of the original pro- 
totype of that 'Kraft, die stets das Bose will und dock das 
Gute schafft ' [that force which always wants evil and never- 
theless creates good]. Any progress of mankind takes place 
not through him but in spite of him. 

As the Jew never possessed a State with definite terri- 
torial boundary, and as therefore he never called a culture 
his own, the conception arose that one had to deal with a 
people that had to be counted among the ranks of the 
nomads. This is an error that is as great as it is dangerous. 
The nomad certainly possesses a definitely limited living 
space, only he does not cultivate it like a sedentary peasant, 
but he lives on the yield of his herds with which he wanders 
about in his territory. The simplest reason for this is to be 
seen in the poor fertility of a soil which therefore does not 
permit of settlement. But the deepest cause lies in the dis- 
parity between the technical culture of a time or a people 
and the natural poverty of a living space. There are do- 
mains in which even the Aryan is unable to become master 
of the soil in closed settlements and to make a living from 
it, except by the technology he developed in the course of 
more than a thousand years. If he did not have this tech- 
nology, then he would either have to avoid these territories 
or he would also have to struggle along as a nomad in per- 
petual wandering (provided that his thousand-year-old 
education and custom of settlement did not make this ap- 
pear simply impossible to him). One has to consider, how- 



NATION AND RACE 419 

ever, that at the time the American continent was opened, 
numerous Aryans fought for their living as trappers, hunt- 
ers, etc., and this frequently in large groups with women 
and children, always wandering about, so that their exist- 
ence resembled completely that of the nomads. Only when 
their increasing number and better instruments permitted 
them to clear the wild soil for tillage and to resist the abor- 
igines, more and more settlements sprang up over the 
country.^ 

The Aryan also was probably first a nomad, and in the 
course of time he settled down, but he never was, for this 
reason, a Jew! No, the Jew, is not a nomad; for the latter 
already has a definite attitude towards the conception 
'work' which served as the basis for his later development, 
inasmuch as the necessary spiritual presumptions for that 
purpose are present. With him also the basically idealistic 
attitude exists, though in an infinite dilution, and therefore 
through his entire character he appears perhaps alien to 
Aryan peoples, but not uncongenial. With the Jew, how- 
ever, this attitude is non-existent; therefore he never was a 
nomad, but always only a parasite in the body of other 
peoples. That thereby he sometimes leaves his previous liv- 



This comment on American history is based upon the writ- 
ings of Karl May, a famous German 'thriller/ whose stories 
of Indians and pioneers Hitler has deeply relished. An interest- 
ing related passage on nomads in America may be found in 
Das Schwein als Kritcriuvn fucr nordische Vodker und Semitcn 
(The Hog as a Criterion for Nordic Peoples and Semites) by 
R. Walther Darr6. There an attempt is made to show that the 
Jewish prohibition of pork indicates that they were a nomadic 
desert people, while the Nordic addiction to that animal 
reveals an innate tendency to settle down. Hans Guenther 
also attributes Bodenstdndigktil (settling down instinct) to the 
Germans. Cf . Rasscnkunde des deutschen Volkes. 



420 MEIN KAMPF 

ing quarters is not connected with his intention, but is the 
simple logic of his being thrown out from time to time by 
the host nation he abuses. But his spreading is the typical 
symptom of all parasites; he always looks for a new feeding 
soil for his race. 

t But this has nothing to do with nomadism for the reason 
that the Jew does not think of leaving a territory he occu- 
pies, but he remains where he is sitting, and that means so 
'sedentary' that he may be expelled only with force and 
with great difficulty. His spreading to ever new countries 
takes place only in the moment when certain conditions for 
his existence are apparent there; without that he would 
(like the nomad) change his previous residence. He is and 
remains the typical parasite, a sponger who, like a harmful 
bacillus, spreads out more and more if only a favorable 
medium invites 'him to do so. But the effect of his existence 
resembles also that of parasites; where he appears the host 
people die out sooner or later. 

Thus the Jew lived at all times in the States of other 
peoples and there he formed his own State, which, though 
disguised by the name of 'religious community/ generally 
sailed as long as external circumstances did not see fit to 
make a complete revelation of its nature. But once he be- 
lieved himself strong enough to be able to dispense with the 
protecting cover, then he always dropped the veil and sud- 
denly he was what so many others were unwilling to see and 
to believe in before : the Jew. 

In the Jew's life as a parasite in the body of other nations 
and States, his characteristic is established which once 
caused Schopenhauer to pronounce the sentence, already 
mentioned, that the Jew is the 'great master of lying. 9 
Life urges the Jew towards the lie, that is, to a perpetual lie, 
just as it forces the inhabitants of northern countries to wear 
warm clothes.-* 

His life within other peoples can only exist in the long 



NATION AND RACE 421 

run if he succeeds in creating the impression as though he 
were not a people but only a 'religious community,' though 
a special one. 

But with this the first great lie starts. 

In order to lead his existence as a peoples 9 parasite he is 
forced to deny his inner nature. Now the more intelligent 
the individual Jew is, the more will he succeed in this delu- 
sion. It can even go so far that great parts of the host nation 
finally believe in all sincerity that the Jew is really a French- 
man or an Englishman, a German or an Italian, though also 
of a special 'denomination.' f State authorities, which 
always seem to be animated only by the historical 'frac- 
tion' of wisdom, fall most easily victim of this infamous 
deception. In these circles independent thinking is looked 
upon as a genuine sin against the holy advancement, so that 
one must not be surprised that for example even today a 
Bavarian State minister has not the faintest idea that the 
Jew is a people and not a 'denomination' though only one 
look into the Jew's own newspaper world ought immedi- 
ately to demonstrate this to even the most modest mind. 
Of course, the Jewish Echo is not yet an official organ and 
therefore it is 'unauthoritative* for the brains of such a 
government potentate. 

The Jews were always a people with definite racial qual- 
ities and never a religion, only their progress made them 
probably look very early for a means which could divert 
disagreeable attention from their person. But what would 
have been more useful and at the same time more harmless 
than the 'purloining' of the appearance of being a religious 
community? For here, too, everything is purloined, or 
rather, stolen. But resulting from his own original nature 
the Jew cannot possess a religious institution for the very 
reason that he lacks all idealism in any form and that he 
also does not recognize any belief in the hereafter. But in 
the Aryan conception one cannot conceive of a religioo 



422 MEIN KAMPF 

which lacks the conviction of the continuation of life after 
death in some form. Indeed, the Talmud is then not a book 
for the preparation for the life to come, but rather for a 
practical and bearable life in this world. 

The Jewish religious doctrine is primarily a direction for 
preserving the purity of the blood of Judaism as well as 
for the regulation of the Jews' intercourse with one an- 
other, but even more in connection with the rest of the 
world, that means, with non-Jews. But here, too, the prob- 
lems involved are not at all ethical, but rather extremely 
modest economic ones. About the moral value of the Jew- 
ish religious instructions there exist today and there have 
existed at all times rather exhaustive studies (on the non- 
Jewish side; the drivel of the Jews themselves about this is, 
of course, cut to the purpose) which make this kind of 
'religion' appear even odious from Aryan viewpoints. But 
the best stamp is given by the product of this 'religious' 
education, the Jew himself. His life is really only of this 
world, and his spirit is as alien to true Christianity, for in- 
Jewish religion does stress belief in the immortality of the 
soul. The earlier portions of the Old Testament do not, it is 
true, explicitly go beyond affirmations concerning the im- 
mortality of the Jewish people as a whole. Later on, in the 
Book of Daniel and in Maccbabees, the ideas of the survival 
of the soul and of bodily resurrection are emphasized. Medie- 
val Jewry clung to the belief, and the records of 'saints' who 
died during persecutions breathe a firm hope of survival in 
God. For a liberal Jewish commentary, cf. A Social and 
Religious History of the Jews, by Salo Wittmayer Baron. 

The reasoning here is more explicitly formulated in Rosen- 
berg. Cf. also, St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans, Chapter 1 1 : 
'As concerning the Gospel, they are enemies for your sake; 
but as touching the election, they are beloved for the fathers 9 
sake*/ 



NATION AND RACE 423 

seance, as his nature was two thousand years ago to the 
Sublime Founder of the new doctrine. Of course, the latter 
made no secret of His disposition towards the Jewish 
people, and when necessary He even took to the whip in 
order to drive out of the Lord's temple this adversary of all 
humanity, who even then as always saw in religion only a 
means for his business existence. But for this, of course, 
Christ was crucified, while our present party Christianity 
disgraces itself by begging for Jewish votes in the elections 
and later tries to conduct political wirepulling with atheis- 
tic Jewish parties, and this against their own nation. 

Upon this first and greatest lie, that the Jew is not a race 
but simply a religion, further lies are then built up in neces- 
sary consequence. To them also belongs the language 
spoken at the time by the Jew. For him it is never a means 
of expressing his thoughts, but for hiding them. When he 
speaks French, he thinks Jewish, and when he turns out 
German poetry, he only gives an outlet to the nature of his 
people. 

As long as the Jew has not become the master of the other 
peoples, he must, whether he likes it or not, speak their lan- 
guages, and only if they would be his slaves then they might 
all speak a universal language so that their domination will 
be made easier (Esperanto!). 

How far the entire existence of this people is based on a 
continuous lie is shown in an incomparable manner and 
certainty in the 'Protocols of the Wise Men of Zion/ so 

The 'Protocols of the Wise Men of Zion' were first circu- 
lated in Russia during the early years of the twentieth century. 
Apparently they formed part of the literary stock-in-trade of 
certain secret organizations. The tract purports to be an 
account of a meeting between Jewish leaders in the fall of 1897, 
which year marked the first convention of the Zionist Congress. 
Since pilgrimages to the Holy Land were popular in Russia, tht 



424 MEIN KAMPF 

infinitely hated by the Jews. They are supposed to be a 
'forgery' the Frankfurter Zeitung moans and cries out to the 
world once a week; the best proof that they are genuine 
after all. What many Jews may do unconsciously is here 
exposed consciously. But this is what matters. It makes 
no difference from the head of which Jew these disclosures 
come, but decisive it is that they demonstrate, with a truly 
horrifying certainty, the nature and the activity of the Jew- 
ish people and expose them in their inner connection as well 
as in their ultimate final aims. But the best criticism ap- 
plied to them is reality. He who examines the historical 
development of the past hundred years, from the points of 
view of this book, will also immediately understand the 
clamor of the Jewish press. For once this book has become 
the common property of a people, the Jewish danger is 
bound to be considered as broken. 



combination of Zionism and terrorism was effective propa- 
ganda. A horrible plot to undermine society, overthrow 
governments, and destroy Christianity is revealed. The 
'minutes' are copied verbatim from *A Dialogue in Hades 
Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu, ' an attack on the 
Masons and the Bonapartists written in French by Maurice 
Joly in 1868. The 'Protocols' merely substituted the word 
'Jew* for Joly's own devils. Another probable source is 
Biarritz, a novel published by John Retcliff in 1868, one 
scene in which described an imaginary annual meeting of 
'the prince of the twelve Tribes of Israel* in the Jewish ceme- 
tery of Prague. They discuss measures calculated to destroy 
all Christians. Editions of the 'Protocols' edited by Rosen- 
berg and others are now widely circulated in Germany and 
other countries. Noteworthy is the fact that Hitler's justifi- 
cation of them (Count Reventlow had admitted their spurious- 
ness during a sensational trial in 1923) almost parallels the 
explanation given by the Reverend Charles Coughlin at the 
time they were reprinted in his periodical, Social Justice. 



NATION AND RACE 425 

In order to become acquainted with the Jew, it is best to 
study the way he took inside the body of the other peoples 
in the course of the centuries. It suffices to follow this up 
on the basis of only one example in order to arrive at the 
necessary conclusions. As his development was always and 
at all times the same, as also the peoples he eats into are 
always the same, it is recommended for such a study to 
break his development up into certain sections which in 
this case, to simplify matters, I denote with letters. 

The first Jews came to ancient Germany in the course of 
the advance of the Romans, that is, as tradesmen as usual 
In the storms of the peoples' migration, however, an end 
seems to have been put also to this, and therefore the time 
of the first Germanic State formation may be considered the 
beginning of a new and now permanent Judaization of Cen- 
tral and North Europe. Now a development sets in which 
was always the same or a similar one, wherever Jews met 
Aryan peoples. 



(a) With the appearance of the first fixed settlements 
the Jew is suddenly 'there/ He comes as a tradesman, and 
at the beginning he puts little stress on the disguise of hia 
nationality. He is still a Jew, partly perhaps also for the 
reason that the external racial difference between him and 
the host nation is too great and his linguistic knowledge too 
small, and that the seclusion of the host nation is too strong 
for him to venture to appear as something different from 
a 'foreign tradesman.' With his versatility and the host 
nation's inexperience it is no disadvantage, but rather an 
advantage, for him to keep up his character as 'Jew'; one 
meets the stranger courteously. 

(ft) Now he gradually begins to become 'active' in eco- 
nomic life, not as a producer, but exclusively as an inter- 
mediary link. In his versatility of a thousand years' trading 



426 MEIN KAMPF 

he is infinitely superior to the clumsy and boundlessly hon- 
est Aryans, so that after a short time trade threatens to 
become his monopoly. Further, he begins money-lending 
and that always at usurious interest. He actually intro- 
duces interest by this. The danger of this new institution 
is not recognized at first, but for the sake of the momen- 
tary advantages it is even welcomed. 

(c) The Jew has settled down completely; that means, he 
occupies special quarters in the towns and villages and more 
and more he forms a special State within the State. He 
considers trade as well as all money transactions as his very 
own privilege, which he exploits ruthlessly. 

(d) Money transactions and trade have now completely 
become his monopoly. His usurious rates of interest finally 
stir up resistance, his otherwise increasing impertinence 
causes indignation, his riches envy. The cup is filled to 
overflowing when he draws also the land and the soil into 
the circle of his mercenary objects and degrades it to the 
level of goods to be sold or rather to be traded. As he him- 
self never tills the soil, but only looks upon it as a property 
to be exploited, on which the peasant may well remain but 
only under the most wretched extortions on the part of his 
present master, the aversion against him finally grows into 
open hatred. His blood-sucking tyranny becomes so great 
that riots against him occur. Now one begins to look more 
and more closely at the stranger and one discovers more and 
more new repellent features and characteristics in him, till 
the chasm becomes an unsurmountable one. 

In times of most bitter distress the wrath against him 
finally breaks out, and the exploited and ruined masses take 
up self-defense in order to ward off the scourge of God. 
They have got to know him in the course of several cen- 
turies and they experience his mere existence as the same 
distress as the plague. 

(e) Now, however, the Jew begins to unveil his true qual- 



NATION AND RACE 427 

ities. With disgusting flattery he approaches the govern- 
ments, he puts his money to work, and in this manner he 
secures again and again the privilege of a renewed exploi- 
tation of his victims. Although sometimes the people's fury 
against the eternal blood-sucker flares up like fire, this does 
not prevent him in the least from appearing again, after a 
few years, at the place he had barely left and to begin his 
former life all over. No persecution can deter him from ex- 
ploiting mankind, can expel him; after each one he is here 
again after a short time, and just the same as he was before. 

In order at least to prevent the worst, one begins to take 
the soil out of his usurious hands by making the acquisition 
of soil legally impossible for him. [j 

(/) In the measure in which the power of the monarchs 
begins to rise, he pushes nearer and nearer to them. He 
begs for 'privileges' and 'charters/ which he willingly re- 
ceives, against corresponding payment, from these gentle- 
men who are always in need of money. No matter what 
this costs him, he gets back with interest and compound in- 
terest in the course of a few years the money he has spent. 
A real blood-sucker which attaches itself to the body of the 
unfortunate people and which cannot be removed until the 
monarchs themselves again need money and in person tap 
the blood that he has sucked in. 

This game is repeated again, whereby the r61e of the 



For a history of these pogroms which were caused in the 
main by the enthusiasm incident to the Crusades cf. 'Die 
Judcnbck&amp;mpfung im Mittdaltcr,' by Peter Browe, S.J., m 
Zcitschrift jtir katholische Theologie (Vol. LXII, nrs. 2 and 3). 
Saint Bernard preached against these disorders, and the Papal 
Bull Licet perfidia iudaeorum was published to stop them. 
Browe's conclusion is that charges of usury, etc., emerge rela- 
tively late, indicating possibly that the Jews resorted to such 
measures as means of defense. 



418 MEIN KAMPF 

so-called 'German monarchs 9 is just as wretched as that of 
the Jews themselves. They were really God's chastisement 
for their 'dear' people, these gentlemen, and they find their 
parallel only in the various ministers of the present time. 

It was thanks to the German monarchs that the German 
nation was unable to free itself for good from the Jewish 
danger. Unfortunately, this fact did not change later on, 
so that by the Jew they were only allotted the thousandfold 
reward they deserved for the sins they once committed 
against their peoples. They had sold themselves to the 
Devil and had landed in his domain. 

(g) Thus his ensnaring the monarchs led to their ruin. 
Their attitude towards the peoples loosens slowly but surely 
in the measure in which they cease to serve the interests of 
the latter and, instead, become the usufructuaries of their 
'subjects.' The Jew knows their end accurately, and he 
tries to speed it up if possible. He himself advances their 
eternal financial troubles by diverting them more and more 
from their true tasks; by toadying to them with the worst 
flattery, he induces them to vice and thus makes himself 
more and more indispensable. His versatility, rather his 
anscrupulousness, in all money matters knows how to 
extract, even to extort, more and more money from the ex- 
ploited subjects who tread the path to nothing in shortei 
and shorter periods of time. Every Court thus has its 
4 Court Jew.' (This is the name of the monsters who tor- 
ture the beloved people to the point of despair and who pre- 
pare the eternal pleasure of the monarchs.) Who will won- 
der, then, that these 'ornaments' of the human race are 
finally also outwardly decorated and rise to the ranks of the 
hereditary 'nobility/ and thus help not only in making this 
institution ridiculous, but even in poisoning it. 

Another allusion to the Habsburgs, accused of having pro- 
tected the Jews and of having assured their rise in the world. 



NATION AND RACE 429 

Now he is all the more able to use his position for the 
sake of his advancement. 

Finally, he only needs to submit himself to baptism in 
order to come into the possession of all possibilities and 
rights of the natives of the country. He puts through this 
'business' not infrequently to the joy of the churches over 
the 'son' they have won and to Israel's joy at the successful 
swindle. 

(fi) Now a change begins to take place within Jewry. So 
far they were Jews; that means they did not want to appear 
as something else, and also they could not do so with such 
extremely pronounced race characteristics on both sides. 
Still at the time of Frederick the Great nobody would think 
of seeing in the Jew something other than a * foreign 1 people, 
and Goethe is still horrified at the idea that in future matri- 
mony between Christians and Jews would no longer be for- 
bidden by law. Now Goethe was, God knows, certainly no 
reactionary, far less a helot; what spoke out of him was 
nothing but the voice of blood and of reason. Thus, despite 
all disgraceful actions of the Courts, the people instinctively 
sees in the Jew the alien element in its own body and it takes 
a corresponding attitude towards him. 

This was to become different now. In the course of a 
thousand years he has learned to master the language of his 
host people to such an extent as to believe that he can in the 
future risk to accent his Judaism a little less and to put his 
' Germanity ' more into the foreground ; for no matter how 
ridiculous, nay, absurd, it may seem at first, yet he permits 
himself the impudence of changing himself into a 'Ger- 
manic'; in this case therefore a 'German.' Thereby begins 
one of the most infamous lies conceivable. Since of Ger- 
manity he possesses really nothing but the ability to speak 
its language badly in the most terrible manner, since for the 
rest, however, he never blended with it, therefore his whole 
Germanitv rests only on the language. The race, however, 



430 MEIN KAMPF 

ia not based upon the language, but upon the blood exclu- 
sively, something that nobody knows better than the Jew, 
who puts only very little value upon the preservation of his 
language, but everything on the preservation of the purity 
of his blood. One can change the language of a man with- 
out ado, that means he can use another language; but then 
he will express his old thoughts in his new language, his 
inner nature will not be changed. This is shown best of all 
by the Jew who is able to speak in a thousand languages and 
yet remains always the one Jew. His character qualities 
have remained the same, whether two thousand years ago 
he spoke Roman as a grain merchant in Ostia or whether as 
a flour profiteer of today he haggles German like a Jew. He 
is always the same Jew. That this matter of course is 
naturally not understood by a normal councillor of the min- 
istry or a higher police official of today is also a matter of 
course, as hardly any person endowed with less instinct or 
intellect walks about than these 'servants' of our exem- 
plary 'State authority 1 of the 'present time/ 

The reason why the Jew decides now suddenly to become 
a ' German ' is obvious. He feels that the power of the mon- 
archfe begins slowly to tumble, and therefore he seeks to get 
a platform under his feet in time. Further, his financial rule 
of the entire business life has already progressed so far that, 
without the possession of all the 'civil' rights, he is no 
longer able to support the whole enormous building, in any 
case no further increase of his influence can take place. But 
he wishes both; for the higher he climbs, the more allur- 
ingly rises out of the veil of the past his old goal, once pro- 
mised to him, and with feverish greed he watches in his 
brightest heads the dream of world domination step into 
tangible proximity. Therefore, his sole endeavor is aimed 
at putting himself into complete possession of the ' civil f 
rights. 

This is the reason for the emancipation from the ghetto 



NATION AND RACE 431 

Thus the Court Jew develops slowly into the folk Jew; 
that means, of course, the Jew remains now as before in the 
surroundings of the high gentlemen, he even tries to push 
still more into this circle ; but at the same time another part 
of his race chums up to the 'dear people.' If one considers 
how much he has sinned against the masses in the course of 
the centuries, how again and again he squeezed and ex- 
torted without mercy, if one considers further how the 
people gradually learned to hate him for this and finally saw 
in his existence really nothing but a punishment of Heaven, 
then one can understand how hard this change must be for 
the Jew. Yes, it is tiresome work to present oneself sud- 
denly again as ' friend of mankind ' to the skinned victims. 

At first, therefore, he begins to make good, in the eyes of 
the people, what so far he had sinned against it. He begins 
his change as 'benefactor' of mankind. As his new benevo- 
lence has a genuine foundation, he cannot very well keep to 
the old words of the Bible that the left hand must not know 
what the right hand gives, but whether he wants it or not, 
he has to be content with letting as many people as possible 
know how much he feels the sufferings of the masses and 
what sacrifices he offers personally for this. In the form 
of this inborn ' modesty ' he calls out his merits to the rest 



Goethe, born in Frankfort, describes the ghetto as he had 
known it during his boyhood. In Berlin there was already a 
somewhat different situation, although Jews coming there to 
engage in business were obliged to pay tribute. Thus Moses 
Mendelssohn, founder of the famous banker family, was 
obliged to put down the purchase price for twelve porcelain 
monkeys of a kind then being produced at the Royal Factory. 
Emancipation of the Jew was not in effect everywhere in Ger- 
many until 1869. As a boy, Heinrich Heine knew no German. 
How many Jews had been converted previously the ghetto 
was a religious dividing line we have no means of telling. 



432 MEIN KAMPF 

of the world until the world begins really to believe in them. 
Those who do not believe this do him a great injustice. After 
a short time he begins even to twist these things in such a 
way as to make it appear as though so far one had only 
wronged him, and not vice versa. Those who are especially 
stupid believe this and they cannot but have sympathy 
with the poor 'unfortunate' one. 

For the rest one ought to remark here that the Jew, 
despite all willingness to sacrifice, naturally never becomes 
poor. He knows very well how to manage; indeed, his char- 
ity is sometimes actually comparable to the manure which 
is spread on the field, not out of love for the latter, but out 
of precaution for one's own benefit later on. But in any 
case, everybody knows after a comparatively short time 
that the Jew has now become a ' Benefactor and friend of 
mankind.' What a strange change ! 

But for this reason alone, what to others is more or less 
natural now creates astonishment, and among many even 
visible admiration. Thus it happens that for this reason 
one gives him much more credit than to the rest of man- 
kind, for in their case it is considered a matter of course. 

But even more: the Jew becomes suddenly also 'liberal* 
and he begins to rave of the necessary 'progress' of man- 
kind. 

Thus he gradually makes himself the spokesman of a new 
time. 

Of course, he destroys then also more and more thor- 
oughly the foundations of a truly useful national economy. 
By the roundabout way of the 'share' capital he pushes his 
way into the circulation of national production, he makes 
the latter an object of usury by way of buying or rather of 
trading, and thus he robs the organizations of the basis of 
a personal ownership. Only thus there arises that inner 
estrangement between employer and employee which leads 
to the following political class cleavage. 



NATION AND RACE 433 

But finally, where economic interests are concerned, the 
Jewish influence through the stock exchange grows with ter- 
rifying speed. He becomes the owner, or at least the con- 
troller, of the national labor force. 

For the strengthening of his political position he tries to 
pull down the racial and civil barriers which at first still 
restrain him at every step. For this purpose he fights with 
all his innate thoroughness for religious tolerance and in 
the completely deteriorated Freemasonry he has an excel- 
lent instrument for fighting out and also for 'putting over* 
his aims. By the strings of Freemasonry the circles of the 
government and the higher layers of the political and eco- 
nomic bourgeoisie fall into his nets without their even 
guessing this. 

Only the people as such, or rather that class which is now 
about to wake up, which fights for its own rights and its 
freedom, cannot yet be sufficiently seized by this in its 
deeper and broader layers. But this is more necessary than 
everything else; for the Jew actually feels that the possi- 
bility for his rising to a dominating r61e is only given if there 
is a 'pacemaker* before him; but the latter he believes he 
can recognize in the bourgeoisie, and this in its broadest lay- 
ers. But one cannot catch glovemakers and linen weavers 
in the fine net of Freemasonry; for this one has to apply 
more coarse but not less thorough means. Thus to Free- 
masonry the second weapon in the service of Jewry is 



Hence Rosenberg's crusade against Freemasonry. After 
1933, powerful business influences were able to halt for a time 
the dissolution of the lodges. Masonry was inconsequential in 
Germany, the total number of initiates being 76,360 in 1931. 
They divided into two groups, one of which was 'Christian- 
national' (i.e., conservative), while the other was 'liberal. 9 
The first group comprised more than two-thirds of the total 
membership. 



434 MEIN KAMPF 

added ; the press. He puts himself into possession of it with 
all toughness, but also with infinite versatility. With it he 
begins slowly to grasp and to ensnare, to lead and to push 
the entire public life, because now he is in a position to pro- 
duce and to conduct that power which under the name of 
'public opinion' is better known today than it was a few 
decades ago. 

But thereby he always presents himself as infinitely 
thirsty for knowledge, he praises all progress, but most of 
all, of course, that progress which leads others to destruc- 
tion; for in all knowledge and every development he sees 
forever only the possibility of the advancement of his own 
nationality, and, where this possibility does not exist, he 
is the inexorable and mortal enemy of all light, the despiser 
of all true culture. Thus he applies all knowledge which he 
takes in in the schools of the others, only to the service of 
his race. 

This nationality, however, he guards as never before. 
While he seems to overflow with 'enlightenment,' 'pro- 
gress/ 'freedom/ 'humanity,' etc., he exercises the strictest 
seclusion of his race. Although he sometimes hangs his 
women onto the coattails of influential Christians, yet he 
always keeps his male line pure in principle. He poisons 
the blood of the others, but he guards his own. The Jew 
does not marry a Christian woman, but always the Chris- 
tian a Jewess. Yet the bastards take to the Jewish side. 
Especially a part of the higher nobility degrades itself com- 
pletely. He knows this only too well, and for this reason he 
systematically carries out this kind of 'disarmament' of the 

A very curious generalization. Researches in several German 
Jewish family trees reveal the fact that since the emancipation, 
the majority of extra-confessional marriages were those of 
Jewish men marrying Christian girls. In the United States, 
Abie's Irish Rose emphasizes the same trend. 



NATION AND RACE 435 

spiritually leading class of his racial adversaries. Yet, in 
order to disguise his activity and to put his victims to sleep, 
he speaks now more and more of the equality of all men, 
without consideration of race and of color. And those who 
are stupid begin to believe him. 

But as his entire being still smells too strongly of the 
stranger for the great mass of the people especially to fall 
without ado into his nets, he makes his press give a picture 
of himself which corresponds to reality as little as it serves, 
nevertheless, the purpose he intended. Especially in car- 
toons one endeavors to present the Jew as a harmless little 
folk which cannot help having its characteristics (as others 
also), but which even by its manners, appearing perhaps a 
little strange, gives forth symptoms of his possibly comic, 
yet always fundamentally honest and benevolent soul. On 
the whole one strives at making him always appear more 
4 unimportant ' than dangerous. 

His final goal in this State, however, is the victory of 
'democracy/ or as he understands it: because it eliminates 



Certainly no orthodox Jews on record have subscribed even 
to the Christian version of the doctrine that all men are equal. 
This teaching has, indeed, no meaning unless it signifies the 
equality of persons before the law, whether Divine (i.e., 
religious) or human. 

One of the most remarkable anti-Semitic addresses delivered 
by Hitler is dated from April, 1922. The following passage 
may be cited: 'Jewry has tried a ruse which, from the political 
point of view, is really very clever. This capitalistic people, 
which was the first on this earth to introduce the enslavement 
of men, has managed to take the leadership of the Fourth 
Estate into its hands. In so doing it had adopted two lands of 
tactic, one of the Right and one of the Left, since it has apostles 
in both camps. The Jew on the Right tries to make all faults 
that exist stand out so clearly that the man on the street, poor 



436 MEIN KAMPF 

the personality and in its place it puts the majority of 
stupidity, incapacity, and last, but not least, cowardice. 

The final result of this development will be the overthrow 
of the monarch which is bound to arrive sooner or later. -4- 

The enormous economic development leads to a change 
in the social classification of the people. While the small 
craftsmen die out gradually and thus the worker's possi- 
bility of winning an independent existence becomes more 
and more rare, the worker becomes more visibly prole- 
tarian. The industrial 'factory worker 1 comes into being 
whose essential characteristic is to be seen in the fact that 
he hardly ever reaches the position of founding an existence 
of his own in his later life. He is * without property' in the 
truest meaning of the word, so that his old age means a tor- 
ture rather than life. 

Even previously a similar position had been created 

devil, will be irritated to the nth degree greed for money, 
unscrupulousness, hardness of heart, disgusting displays of 
wealth. More and more Jews had slid into the better families, 
you see, and therefore the ruling class has become estranged 
from its people. 

'This was the premise on which work on the Left was under- 
taken. For he was there, to the Left the cheap little dema- 
gogue. He made it impossible for patriots of intelligence to 
accept positions of leadership in the workers' organizations, 
first by adopting an internationalist point of view, and then 
by sponsoring a Marxist theory which proclaimed that property 
as such is theft. Now the leadership of industry, in so far as 
it was patriotic-minded, also could not put up with what was 
happening. Therewith the Jew succeeded in bringing about 
the isolation of this movement from all nationalist elements. 
Next, through clever management of the press, he so influenced 
the masses that the Right looked upon the mistakes of the 
Left as mistakes of the German worker, while the mistakes 
made on the Right in their turn seemed to the German worker 



NATION AND RACE 437 

which also categorically urged towards a solution which 
then also took place. To the peasant and draftsman, the 
official and employee, especially of the State, were slowly 
added as an additional class. They were 'without pro- 
perty' in the truest meaning of the word. The State at last 
helped itself out of this unsound state in a way by taking 
into its hands the provision for the State employees who 
could not provide for themselves in their old age and intro- 
duced the pension. Slowly more and more private enter- 
prises followed this example, so that today almost every 
intellectual, permanently employed, draws a pension later, 
provided the corporation has already reached or surpassed 
a certain size. Only the security of the State official in his 
old age was able to educate him to that unselfish loyalty to 
duty which in pre-War times was the most noble quality 
of German officialdom. 

Thus an entire class, which remained without property, 
was in a clever manner pulled out of social misery and thus 
joined in the entity of the people. 

Now this question again approached the State and the 

mistakes of the so-called bourgeois. And neither of the two 
noticed that the mistakes on both sides were the objectives 
sought by these devilish alien agitators. Thus did there come 
to pass the ghastliest joke in the world history Jewish specu- 
lators became Jewish labor leaders. While Moses Cohn, stock- 
holder, stiffens the backs of his company until it becomes as 
stern and uncompromising as possible towards the demands 
of its workers, Isaac Cohn, labor-leader, is in the courtyard of 
the factory rousing the workers. "Look at them," he cries, 
"they seek only to crush you. Throw your chains away." And 
up above his brother helps make it possible that the chains are 
forged at all. The people is to destroy the backbone of its 
independence its own industry in order that it may sink 
the more surely into the golden chains of the slavery of interest 
imposed by this race.' 



438 MEIN KAMPF 

nation, and this time in a much greater extent. More ana 
more millions of people moved from peasant villages to the 
big cities in order to earn their daily bread as ' factory work- 
ers ' in the newly founded industries. Working and living 
conditions of the new class were more than pitiful. Even 
the former working methods of the one-time craftsmen 01 
peasants, carried over mechanically to the new forms, were 
unsuitable in every respect. The activity of the one and the 
other was no longer comparable with the efforts which the 
industrial factory worker has to afford. With the old crafts- 
manship, time might perhaps play far less a r61e than was 
all the more the case with the new working methods. The 
formal taking-over of the old working hours to the great 
industrial enterprises had indeed a disastrous effect; for the 
actual work done before was only very little, in conse- 
quence of the absence of our present intensive working 
methods. Therefore, if at that time one was still able to 
bear a working day of fourteen or fifteen hours, one could 
no longer do so at a time when every minute is used and 
applied to the fullest extent. The result of this senseless 
transfer of old working hours to the new industrial activity 
was really an unfortunate one in two respects: it ruined 
health and destroyed confidence in a higher law. To this 
was added, finally, the miserable wages as well as, on the 
other hand, the visibly so much better position of the 
employer. 

In the country there was no social question, as the master 
and the servant did the same work, and, above all, they ate 
out of the same dish. But all this had now become different 
at one blow. 

The separation of the employee from the employer now 
seems to be carried out in all domains of life. How far in 
this the inner Judaization of our people has progressed can 
be seen from the low respect, not to say disdain, which is 
awarded the craftsman's work in itself. For this is not Ger- 



NATION AND RACE 439 

man. Only the tainting of our life with foreign elements, 
which was in truth a 'Judaization,' turned the one-time 
respect for craftsmanship into a certain disdain of all physi- 
cal work as a whole. 

Thus a new class, which was very little respected, was 
actually created, and some day the question was bound to 
arise whether the nation would by itself have the energy to 
make this new class again a member of general society, or 
whether the social difference would widen into a class-like 
cleavage. 

But one thing was certain: the new class contained not 
the worst elements in its ranks, but the most energetic ones. 
Here the over-refinements of the so-called i culture ' had not 
yet exercised their deteriorating and destroying influences. 
In its broad masses, the new class was not yet infected by 
the poison of pacifist weakness; it was robust, and, if 
necessary, even brutal. 

While the bourgeoisie does not care at all about this enor- 
mously important question, but indifferently lets things 
take their course, the Jew seizes the unlimited opportunity 
for the future which is offered here, and while on the one 
side he organizes the capitalist methods of exploiting human 
beings to the ultimate consequence, he approaches the very 
victims of his spirit and his activity, and after a short time 
he becomes even the leader of their fight against himself. 
'Against himself is, of course, only metaphorically ex- 
pressed, for the great master of lies knows how to make 
himself appear always as the 'pure 1 one and to charge the 
guilt to the others. As he has the impudence to lead the 
masses in such a manner, the latter does not even think at 
all that this could mean the most villainous betrayal of 
all times. 

And yet it was so. 

As soon as, out of the general economic transformation, 
the new class develops, the Jew sees also before him, dearly 



440 MEIN KAMPF 

and distinctly, the new pacemaker of his own further ad- 
vancement. First he uses the bourgeoisie as the battle ram 
against the feudal world, then the worker against the bour- 
geois world. Just as at one time he knew how to gain by 
sneaking the civil rights for himself in the shadow of the 
bourgeoisie, thus he hopes now that in the worker's fight for 
his existence, he will find the way towards a leadership of 
his own. 

From now on the worker only has the task of working for 
the future of the Jewish people. He is unconsciously put 
into the service of that power which he believes he is fight- 
ing. By making him apparently storm against capital, one 
can most easily make him fight just for the latter. Thus 
one always cries out against international capital, whereas 
in reality one means the national economy. The latter is to 
be demolished so that on its field of carnage the triumph of 
the international stock exchange may be celebrated. 

The Jew's procedure in this is, in short, the following : 

He approaches the worker, pretends to have pity on him, 
or even to feel indignation at his lot of misery and poverty, 
in order more easily to gain his confidence in this way. He 
takes pains to study all the actual (or imagined) hardships 
of his life and to awaken a longing for changing such an 
existence. In an infinitely sly manner, he stimulates the 
need for social justice, dormant in every Aryan, to the point 
of hatred against those who have been better favored by for- 
tune, and thus he gives the fight for the abolition of social 
evils a definite stamp of a view of life. He founds the 
Marxist theory. 

By presenting it as inseparably connected with quite a 
number of socially justified demands, he promotes its 
spread, and, on the other hand, the decent people's aversion 
to fulfilling demands which, presented in such a form and 
accompaniment, appear unjust, nay, impossible from the 
beginning. For under this cloak of social thought, there are 



NATION AND RACE 441 

hidden some more truly diabolic intentions, or they are 
reported in all publicity with the most impudent clarity. 
This doctrine is an inseparable mixture of reason and human 
frenzy, but always so that only lunacy can become reality, 
and never reason. By the categorical rejection of personal- 
ity and, with it, of the nation and its racial contents, it 
destroys the elementary foundations of the entire human 
culture which depends on just these factors. This is the true 
inner nucleus of the Marxist ' view of life,' as far as one may 
call this monstrous product of a criminal mind a 'view of 
life.' With the destruction of the personality and the race 
in this world, there vanishes the essential obstacle for the 
domination of the inferior: this, however, is the Jew. 
f The meaning of this doctrine lies just in the economic 
and the political frenzy. For by this all truly intelligent 

Karl Marx, author of Das Kapital, was the son of Protestant 
parents, converts from Judaism. Like many others who later 
on identified themselves with Socialism, known previously in 
its Utopian forms in France, he was educated in the neo- 
Hegelian philosophy. At the time this markedly evolutionistic 
doctrine ran foul of Lutheran Christianity in a conventional 
and fundamentalistic form. There appeared to be no chance 
for reconciliation between philosophy and religion. The phrase, 
4 Religion is the opium of the people,' comes, however, not from 
Marx but from Bruno Bauer. Marx definitely turned to Social- 
ism during his exile, which followed the Revolution of 1848. 
His strength lies in his sharp insight into capitalistic procedure, 
not in his materialistic dialectic. This last, the especial theme 
of the neo-Hegolians, is much better exemplified in Ludwig 
Feuerbach and Arnold Rugo. 

It is difficult, therefore, to see how Marx's teaching can be 
linked up with Judaism in particular. The popular statement 
of his theory is the work of Friedrich Engels, an Aryan; and 
his philosophy is derivative from Hegel, another Aryan. More- 
over, Marx was a bitter critic of orthodox Judaism. A much 



442 MEIN KAMPF 

members of the nation are kept from putting themselves 
into its service, while those who are mentally less active and 
economically badly trained, join its ranks with flying colors. 
The intelligentsia, however, which of course also needs this 
movement for its existence, is 'sacrificed* by the Jew from 
his own ranks. 

Thus there arises a movement of mere handicraft workers 
under exclusively Jewish leadership, apparently aiming at 
improving the situation of the worker, but in truth intend- 
ing the enslavement, and with it the destruction, of all non- 
Jewish peoples. 

The general pacifistic paralyzation of the national in- 
stinct of self-preservation, introduced into the circles of the 

more typically Jewish labor leader was Ferdinand Lassalle, 
whom the Nazis almost never attack because he affirmed the 
nationalist State and influenced Bismarck. Lassalle's influence 
also survived in the Christian Labor Union movement. 

How eager the early capitalistic entrepreneurs of Germany 
were to fulfill 'just* social demands may be seen from the 
history of the miners ' unions, where there was for a long time 
no question of 'Marxism. 1 But though the underfed and ex- 
ploited workers were led by their clergy, and though they 
4 reverenced ' the ' human personality,' their fight for recognition 
met with a rebuff from Emperor and industry alike. 

Jewish intellectuals, rebuffed by the Stoecker movement 
which during the iSSos blended anti-Semitism with social 
reform on a conservative basis, turned quite generally to 
democratic ideas. In addition the Social Democratic Party, 
seldom getting recruits from 'Aryan 1 academic life, offered 
some opportunity to Jews. Their influence was, however, 
limited. In 1914 the Executive Committee of the Party had 
one Jewish member. In the trade unions organized under the 
Marxist banner, Jewish influence was virtually non-existent. 
But several Jews were Reichstag deputies, or were employed 
on Party journals. 




NATION AND RACE 443 

so-called 'intelligentsia' by Freemasonry, is transmitted to 
the great masses, but above all to the bourgeoisie, by the 
activity of the great press, which today is always Jewish. 
To these two weapons of deterioration now comes as the 
third, and by far the most terrible, the or 
brutal force. Marxism, as the column of at 
should finish what the work of attrition of 
ripe in preparation of the collapse. 

Therewith a truly masterful 
that one really must not be surprised if 
just those institutions fail completely rrl 
much to present themselves as the bearers 
legendary State authority. At all times the 
a few exceptions) has found the most 
his work of destruction in our high and highest or 
of the State. Cringing submissiveness towards ' above ' and 
arrogant superciliousness towards 'below' mark this class 
as much as a narrow-mindedness that often cries to Heaven, 
which in turn is surpassed only by a sometimes truly aston- 
ishing presumption. 

These, however, are the qualities which the Jew wants 
of our authorities and which he correspondingly loves. 

The practical fight, sketched in broad outlines, which 
now sets in takes the following course : -4- 

Corresponding to the final aims of the Jewish fight which 
limit themselves not only to the economic conquest of the 
world, but which also demand the political subjection of 
the latter, the Jew also divides the organization of his 
Marxist world doctrine into two parts, which, apparently 
separated from each other, nevertheless in truth form one 
inseparable whole, the political and the trade-union move- 
ment. 

The union movement is that which is solicitous. To the 
worker in his difficult struggle for existence which he has 
to fight thanks to the greed or the short-sightedness of many 



444 MEIN KAMPF 

employers, it offers help and protection, and with it the 
possibility of fighting for better living conditions. If the 
worker does not want to give up the representation of his 
human living rights to the mercy of people who are little 
conscious of responsibility and who are often also heartless, 
in times when the organized national community, that is, 
the State, cares next to nothing about him, then he has to 
take the defense of these rights into his own hands. In the 
same measure in which the so-called national bourgeoisie, 
blinded by financial interests, puts the severest obstacles 
into the way of this struggle for life, and not only resists all 
attempts at shortening the inhumanly long working hours, 
at abolishing child labor, safeguarding and protecting the 
woman, raising of the sanitary conditions in workshops and 
homes, but frequently actually sabotages them, the cleverer 
Jew takes charge of the thus oppressed people. He gradu- 
ally becomes the leader of the unionist movement and this 
the more easily as he is not concerned, in honest conviction, 
about an actual abolition of social evils, but rather about 
the formation of an economic fighting troop, blindly de- 
voted to him, for the destruction of the national economic 
independence. For, while the leaders of a sound social pol- 
icy will permanently movte between the directions of the 
preservation of national health on the one hand and the 
safeguarding of an independent national economy on the 
other, for the Jew these two viewpoints are not only dis- 
missed from his fight, but their abolition is, among others, 
the goal of his life. He does not wish the preservation of an 
independent national economy, but its destruction. Conse- 
quently, no pangs of conscience can prevent him, the leader 
of the unionist movement, from making demands which 
not only exceed the goal, but the fulfillment of which is 
either practically impossible or means the ruin of a national 
economy. But, further, he does not want to see before him 
a healthy, sturdy generation, but a decayed herd, able to 



NATION AND RACE 445 

be subjected. This wish, however, again permits him to 
make demands of the most senseless kind, though to his 
own knowledge their practical fulfillment is impossible, and 
which therefore could not at all lead to a change of condi- 
tions, but at the utmost to a devastating stirring-up of the 
masses. This, then, is his concern, and not the genuine and 
honest improvement of its social condition. 

For this reason, however, Jewry's leadership of unionist 
affairs is uncontested until an enormous work of enlighten- 
ment supports the great masses and sets them right about 
their never ending misery, or until the State deals with the 
Jew and his work. For so long as the insight of the masses 
remains as limited as it is now, and the State remains as 
indifferent as it is now, the masses will always follow mostly 
him who first offers the most impudent promises in regard 
to economic affairs. But in this the Jew is master. For his 
entire activity is unrestricted by moral objections ! 

After a short time he thus necessarily expels all competi- 
tors from this field. According to his entire inner rapacious 
brutality, he first of all adapts the unionist movement to the 
most brutal application of force. The resistance and realiza- 
tion of those whose insight resists the Jewish allure is 
broken by terror. The successes of such activity are 
enormous. 

With the help of the union, which could be a blessing to 
the nation, the Jew actually wrecks the foundations of the 
national economy. 

Parallel with this the political organization advances. 

It plays hand in glove with the unionist movement in so 
far as the latter prepares the masses for the political organ- 
ization, and even drives them into it by the whip of force 
and compulsion. It is further the permanent financial 
source from which the political organization feeds its enor- 
mous apparatus. It is the controlling organ for the political 
activity of the individual, and in all great demonstrations 



446 MEIN KAMPF 

of a political nature, it does the touting service. At last, 
however, it no longer represents economic concerns at all, 
but, in the form of the mass and general strike, it puts its 
main fighting means, the laying-down of work, at the dis- 
posal of the political idea. 

By the creation of a press, the contents of which is 
adapted to the mental horizon of people with the lowest 
education, the political and unionist movement finally is 
given an institution which, by its stirring effects, makes the 
lowest classes of the nation ripe for the most reckless acts. 
Its task is not to lead the people from the swamp of base 
mentality to a higher level, but rather to meet their lowest 
instincts. A business that is as speculative as it is remuner- 
ative with the masses, which are as inert as they are some- 
times also presumptuous. 

But it is the press above all which now, in a truly fanatic 
fight of calumny, derides everything which could be looked 
upon as the support of national independence, cultural 
height, and economic self-dependence of the nation. 

It continuously drums upon all those characters which do 
not want to bow to the Jewish assumption of rule, or whose 
ingenious ability in itself appears a danger to the Jew. For 
in order to be hated by the Jew, it is not necessary to fight 
him, but it is enough that he suspects the other may either 
be able to arrive some time at such thoughts or, based on 
his superior genius, to strengthen the force and the height 
of a nationality, hostile to the Jew. 

His unfailing instinct for such things senses in each indi- 
vidual the original soul, and his hostility is assured to him 
who is not the spirit of his spirit. As the Jew is not the one 
who is attacked, but the attacker, consequently his enemy 
is not only he who attacks, but also he who resists him. The 
means, however, by which he tries to break such daring but 
upright souls is not called honest fight, but lie and calumny. 

Here he is not frightened by anything at all, and his base- 



NATION AND RACE 447 

ness becomes so gigantic that nobody need wonder that in 
our people the personification of the Devil, as the symbol of 
all evil, assumes the living appearance of the Jew. 

The ignorance of the great masses about the inner nature 
of the Jew, the lack of instinct and narrow-mindedness of 
our upper classes, make the people easily fall victim to this 
Jewish campaign of lies. 

While the upper classes, out of their inborn cowardice, 
turn from a man who is attacked by the Jew in such manner 
with lie and calumny, the great masses, out of stupidity or 
simplicity, usually believe everything. But the State 
authorities either wrap themselves in silence, or, as is 
mostly the case, they persecute him who is unjustly at- 
tacked, in order to make an end to the nuisance of the 
Jewish press, something which then, in the eyes of such an 
official idiot, appears as the preservation of State authority 
and as safeguarding peace and order, 
t Slowly the fear of the Marxist weapon of Jewry sinks 
into the brains and souls of decent people like a nightmare. 

One begins to tremble before the terrible enemy, and thus 
one has become his final victim. 

The Jew's rule in the State now appears secured to such 
an extent that he may not only again call himself Jew, but 
ruthlessly admits his final thoughts as regards nationality 
and politics. A part of his race even admits quite openly 
that it is a foreign people, however, not without again 
lying in this respect. For while Zionism tries to make the 
other part of the world believe that the national self- 
consciousness of the Jew finds satisfaction in the creation 
of a Palestinian State, the Jews again most slyly dupe the 
stupid goiim. [Jewish colloquial expression : Gentile men or 
women.] They have no thought of building up a Jewish 
State in Palestine, so that they might perhaps inhabit it, 
but they only want a central organization of their inter- 
national world cheating, endowed with prerogatives, with* 



448 MEIN KAMPF 

drawn from the seizure of others: a refuge for convicted 
rascals and a high school for future rogues. 

But it is the sign, not only of their rising confidence, but 
also their feeling of safety, that now, at a time when one part 
of them still mendaciously plays the German, the French- 
man, or the Englishman, the other part impudently and 
openly documents itself as the Jewish race. 

How far they keep the approaching victory before their 
eyes is seen from the terrible manner which their inter- 
course with the members of other peoples assumes. 

For hours the black-haired Jew boy, diabolic joy in his 
face, waits in ambush for the unsuspecting girl whom he 
defiles with his blood and thus robs her from her people. 
With the aid of all means he tries to ruin the racial founda- 
tions of the people to be enslaved. Exactly as he himself 
systematically demoralizes women and girls, he is not 
scared from pulling down the barriers of blood and race for 
others on a large scale. It was and is the Jews who bring 
the negro to the Rhine, always with the same concealed 

During the War, French colonial troops were engaged at the 
front. Afterward some contingents of these formed part of 
the French Army of Occupation. Estimates of the 'morality* 
of this procedure naturally vary. The Germans, especially 
those who had been brought up on the 'war of races' doctrine, 
looked upon Senegambians encamped along the Rhine as the 
worst of all possible profanations. The normal French attitude 
was that if these troops were good enough to live under the 
French flag, they were also good enough to live in Germany. 
Yet there is no doubt that the use of colored troops caused 
the French considerable unnecessary loss of good will. The 
Jews, argues Hitler, were responsible, because the French 
nation (a satrap of England) is the tool of international Jewish 
bankers. In the background are exaggerated conceptions of the 
influence of the Grand Orient. No protest came from Germany 
over the use of Moorish troops by Insurgent Spain. 



NATION AND RACE 449 

thought and the clear goal of destroying, by the bastardiza- 
tion which would necessarily set in, the white race which 
they hate, to throw it down from its cultural and political 
height and in turn to rise personally to the position of 
master. 

For a racially pure people, conscious of its blood, can 
never be enslaved by the Jew. It will forever only be the 
master of bastards in this world. 

Thus he systematically tries to lower the racial level by 
a permanent poisoning of the individual. 

In the political sphere, however, he begins to replace the 
idea of democracy by that of the dictatorship of the 
proletariat. 

In the organized mass of Marxism he has found the 
weapon which makes him now dispense with democracy and 
which allows him, instead, to enslave and to 'rule' the 
people dictatorially with the brutal fist. 

He now works methodically towards the revolution in a 
twofold direction: economically and politically. 

Thanks to his international influence, he ensnares with a 
net of enemies those peoples which put up a too violent 
resistance against the enemy from within, he drives them 
into war, and finally, if necessary, he plants the flag of 
revolution on the battlefield. 

In the field of economics he undermines the States until 
the social organizations which have become unprofitable 
are taken from the State and submitted to his financial 
control. 

Politically he denies to the State all means of self- 
preservation, he destroys the bases of any national self- 
dependence and defense, he destroys the confidence in the 
leaders, he derides history and the past, and he pulls down 
into the gutter everything which is truly great. 

In the domain of culture he infects art, literature, the- 
ater, smites natural feeling, overthrows all conceptions of 



450 MEIN KAMPF 

beauty and sublimity, of nobility and quality, and in turn 
he pulls the people down into the confines of his own 
swinish nature. 

Religion is ridiculed, customs and morality are presented 
as outlived, until the last supports of a nationality in the 
fight for human existence in this world have fallen. 

(e) [sic] Now begins the great, final revolution. The Jew, 
by gaining the political power, casts off the few cloaks 
which he still wears. The democratic national Jew becomes 
the blood Jew and the people's tyrant. In the course of a 
few years he tries to eradicate the national supporters of 
intelligence, and, while he thus deprives the people of their 
natural spiritual leaders, he makes them ripe for the slave's 
destiny of permanent subjugation. 

The most terrible example of this kind is offered by Rus- 
sia where he killed or starved about thirty million people 

That Bolshevism was a creation of Jewry has long been a 
favorite anti-Semitic assertion. In 1920 Hitler met Dietrich 
Eckart, a journalist of ability who for some years edited the 
Vdlkischer Bcobachtcr. Mein Kampf closes with his name, and 
some of it reflects his style. It may be that Eckart suggested 
writing the book. His statue, festooned with wreaths, is the 
ptice de resistance of the Brown House, Munich. Eckart was 
the author of a pamphlet, Der Bolschewismus von Moses bis 
Lenin (Bolshevism from Moses to Lenin). It was believed at 
the time that Lenin was a Jew. 

The Russian Revolution had its roots in bad government. 
Jews suffered from this at least as much as did other groups, 
but in addition they had to contend with fanatical anti-Semitic 
organizations for which the Czar was not radical enough. That 
does not explain, however, why the Kerensky Revolution was 
undermined by Bolshevists, and the door is left open to specula- 
tion. Lenin was transported from Switzerland to Russia in 
1917 in a sealed railway coach by order of General Ludendorff. 
The hope was that he would be able to wean the Russian army 



NATION AND RACE 451 

with a truly diabolic ferocity, under inhuman tortures, in 
order to secure to a crowd of Jewish scribblers and stock 
exchange robbers the rulership over a great people. 

But the end is not only the end of the freedom of the 
peoples oppressed by the Jew, but also the end of these 
peoples' parasites themselves. With the death of the victim 
this peoples' vampire will also die sooner or later. &lt; 



If we let all the causes of the German collapse pass before 
our eyes, there remains as the ultimate and decisive cause 
the non-recognition of the race problem and especially of 
the Jewish danger. 

The defeats in the battlefield of August, 1918, would 
have been easily bearable. They were out of proportion to 
the victories of our people. Not the defeats have over- 
thrown us, but we were overthrown by that power which 
prepared these defeats by robbing our people systemati- 
cally, for many decades, of its political and moral instincts 



from thoughts of continuing the War, and thus make possible 
a separate peace with Germany. It is usually held that the 
original idea came from Dr. Helphand, an adventurer with a 
flair of genius and a gift for intrigue. Lenin, aided by Trotski, 
gained control of Russia, and the separate peace which al- 
most cost Lenin his prestige was negotiated at Brest- 
Litovsk. That (if one excepts Trotski) Jews had an unduly 
important part in these developments is disproved by two 
facts: that only a small percentage of either the Communist 
Party leadership or its following was Jewish ; and by the reac- 
tion of leading Jewish Socialists not favorable to the Bolshevist 
minority. There is little evidence to support any current as- 
sumptions that international Jewish aid was given to Lenin. 
In America, England, and France, Jewish groups naturally 
favored Kerensky. 



452 MEIN KAMPF 

and forces which alone enable and entitle peoples to exist 
in this world. 

The old Reich, by inattentively passing by the question 
of the preservation of the racial foundations of our nation- 
ality, disregarded also the sole right which alone gives life 
in this world. Peoples which bastardize themselves, or 
permit themselves to be bastardized, sin against the will of 
eternal Providence, and their ruin by the hand of a stronger 
nation is consequently not an injustice that is done to them, 
but only the restoration of right. If a people no longer 
wants to respect the qualities which Nature has given it 
and which root in its blood, then it has no longer the right 
to complain about the loss of its worldly existence. 

Everything in this world can be improved. Any defeat 
can become the father of a later victory. Any lost war can 
become the cause of a later rise, every distress the fertiliza- 
tion of human energy, and from every suppression can come 
the forces of a new spiritual rebirth, as long as the blood 
remains preserved in purity. 

Alone the loss of the purity of the blood destroys the 
inner happiness forever; it eternally lowers man, and never 
again can its consequences be removed from body and mind. 
Only upon examining and comparing, in the face of this 
sole question, all the other problems of life, one will be able 
to judge how ridiculously small the latter are as compared 
with the former. How all of them are only temporal, while 
the question of the preservation of the blood is one of human 
eternity. 

All really important symptoms of decay of the pre-War 
time ultimately go back to racial causes. 

No matter whether questions of general law or excres- 
cences of economic life, whether cultural symptoms of de- 
cline or political processes of degeneration, whether ques- 
tions of faulty education at school or evil influence on the 
grown-ups by the press, etc., are involved, always and 



NATION AND RACE 459 

everywhere it is fundamentally the non-recognition of 
racial considerations of one's own people or the non-recog- 
nition of a foreign, a racial, danger. 

Therefore, all attempts at reforms, all works of social aid 
and political efforts, all economic rise, and every apparent 
increase of spiritual knowledge were nevertheless unimpor- 
tant in their consecutive symptoms. The nation and that 
organism which enables and preserves its life on this earth, 
that is, the State, did not become internally healthier, but 
they visibly languished more and more. All the sham pro- 
sperity of the old Reich could not conceal the inner weak- 
ness, and any attempt at an actual strengthening of the 
Reich failed again and again on account of passing by the 
most important question. 

It would be wrong to believe that the adherents of the 
various political doctrines which doctored about the Ger- 
man national body, nay, that even the leaders, to a certain 
extent, were bad or malevolent men. Their activity was 
condemned to unproductiveness for the sole reason that, in 
the most favorable case at best, they saw and tried to fight 
the symptomatic forms of our general sickness, but passed 
blindly by the germ. He who systematically follows the 
political development of the old Reich is bound to arrive, 
upon quiet examination, at the realization that even at the 
time of unity, and thus of rise of the German nation, the 
inner decay was already on its way, and that, despite all 
apparent political successes and rising economic wealth, the 
general situation became worse from year to year. Even 
the elections for the Reichstag, with their outward swelling 
of the Marxist votes, announced the more and more rapidly 
approaching internal, and, with it, external, collapse. All 
the successes of the so-called bourgeois parties were of no 
value, not only because they were unable to check the 
increasing numbers of the Marxist flood even with so-called 
bourgeois electoral victories, but because above all even 



454 MEIN KAMPF 

they themselves harbored the ferment of deterioration. 
The bourgeois world itself, without its knowing it, was 
infected with the cadaveric poison of Marxist ideas, and its 
resistance originated frequently rather from the competi- 
tive envy of ambitious leaders than from a rejection in prin- 
ciple of the adversaries, determined to fight to the extreme* 
There was only one who, during these long years, fought 
with imperturbable regularity, and this was the Jew. His 
star of David then rose higher and higher in the same 
measure in which our people's will for self-preservation 
vanished. 

Therefore, in August, 1914, it was not a people, deter- 
mined to attack, which rushed to the battlefield, but what 
took place was only the last flaring-up of the national 
instinct of self-preservation in face of the progressing paci- 
fist Marxist paralyzation of our national body. As even in 
those fateful days one did not recognize the internal enemy, 
all outward resistance was in vain, and Providence gave the 
reward, not to the victorious sword, but it followed the law 
of eternal revenge. 

Out of this inner realization there were to be formed lor 
us the leading principles, as well as the tendency of the new 
movement which alone, in our conviction, was enabled to 



For assertions like these, General Ludendorff is primarily 
responsible. Irritated by failure and by some rather tactless 
attempts to taunt him for that failure, he took refuge in anti- 
Semitic utterances, and lent his great name to reckless calum- 
nies. Had either he or von Hindenburg remembeied the Jewish 
dead of their armies and stopped the tirades with one dear 
word of disapproval, the whole anti-Semitic campaign would 
have collapsed. It may be that this was too much to expect of 
men smarting under humiliation and defeat. In addition 
Ludendorff retreated into the shadows of a mystical German 
faith that lent fervor and significance to his attacks. 



NATION AND RACE 455 

bring the decline of the German people not only to a stand- 
still, but also to create the granite foundation upon which 
one day there can exist a State which represents not a mech- 
anism of economic considerations and interests, alien to the 
people, but a f olkish organism : 

A Germanic State of the 
German Nation 



CHAPTER XII 

THE FIRST PERIOD IN 

THE DEVELOPMENT OF 

THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST 

GERMAN WORKERS 1 PARTY 



IF NOW at the end of this book I describe the first 
period of development of our movement and deal briefly 
with a series of questions caused by it, it is not done in 
order to give a treatise on the spiritual aims of the move- 
ment. The goal and the task of the new movement are so 
enormous that one can deal with them only in a volume of 
their own. Therefore, in a second volume I will deal in de- 
tail with the foundations (and their programs) of the move- 
ment and will try to draw a picture of what we conceive by 
the word 'State. 1 With 'we* I mean all those hundreds of 
thousands who fundamentally long for the same thing with- 
out their finding the words in detail to describe the outward 
appearance of what is before their inner eye. For with all 
great reforms the remarkable thing is that at first they have 
as their champion perhaps only a single individual, but as 
their supporters many millions. For centuries their goal is 
often the inner ardent wish of hundreds of thousands, till 
one man stands up as the proclaimer of such a general will 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 457 

and as the flag-bearer of an old longing he helps it to victory 
in the form of a new idea. 

That millions harbor in their hearts the longing for a 
fundamental change in the existing circumstances is proved 
by the deep discontent from which they suffer. It is ex- 
pressed in thousandfold forms of symptoms, with some in 
despair and hopelessness, with others in aversion, in wrath 
and indignation, with the one in indifference and with the 
other in furious exuberance. Also those who are sick and 
tired of elections, as well as the many who tend towards the 
most fanatical extreme of the left, may be looked upon as 
witnesses to this inner discontent. 

It was the aim of the young movement to appeal first of 
all to these elements. It ought not to form an organization 
of those who are content and satisfied, but to bring together 
those who are tortured by suffering, those who are without 
peace and unhappy and discontented, and above all it must 
not swim on the surface of the national body, but has to 
root in its foundations. 



f Taken from the purely political point of view, the fol- 
lowing picture presented itself in 1918: a people is torn into 
two parts. The one, by far the smaller, comprises the layers 



The elections of May, 1924, which followed the most hectic 
period in the history of the short-lived Republic the Ruhr 
invasion, inflation, the Hitler putsch, revaluations of the cur- 
rency, and the parleys that led to the signing of the Dawes 
Plan was marked by a trend to the Left and Right extremes. 
The conservative German National Party became the second 
strongest group in the Reichstag, the number of Communist 
deputies rose to 62 (there had been only 2 in 1920), and the 
DciUsch-voelkischc Frcihcitspartei (German Folkish Freedom 
Party), founded by Right radical dissidents from the conservm- 



458 MEIN KAMPF 

of national intelligence with exclusion of all those who are 
physically active. It is outwardly national, but by this 
word it is unable to imagine something different from a very 
lukewarm and weak representation of so-called State in- 
terests which in turn seem identical with dynastic interests. 
It tries to fight for its ideas and aims with spiritual weapons 
which are as fragmentary as they are superficial, but which 
in themselves fail completely in the face of the enemy's 
brutality. With one single terrible stroke this class, which 
just previously was still the ruling one, is thrown over, and 
now, in trembling cowardice, it bears every humiliation on 
the part of the ruthless victor. 

It is faced, in the form of the second class, by the great 
mass of the working population. This class is integrated 
in more or less radical Marxist movements, determined to 
break any spiritual resistance by the power of force. It 
does not want to be national, but it consciously rejects any 
promotion of national interests as, in turn, it promotes all 
suppression on the part of foreign powers. Measured by 
figures it is the stronger party, but it comprises above all 
those elements of the nation without which a national re- 
surrection is unthinkable and impossible. 

For as early as 1918 one had to see clearly about this. 

tive group, elected 32 men. Under the circumstances, it looked 
as if dissatisfaction with the policies sponsored by the Re- 
publican governments was growing rapidly, and that the ' Re- 
volution ' was in danger. In many respects this election resem- 
bles that of 1930. Yet six months later December, 1924 
another Reichstag election completely changed the picture. 
The Communists elected only 32 deputies, and the National 
Socialists 14. The number and percentage of citizens voting in- 
creased. Doubtless the principal causes of this reversal were 
two the manifest inability of the extremists to accomplish 
anything, and the beneficent effect to the capital that flowed 
into Germany under the Dawes Plan. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 459 

Any resurrection of the German people can take place only 
by way of regaining external power. But the prerequisites 
for this are not arms as our bourgeois 'statesmen' always 
babble, but the forces of will power. At one time the Ger- 
man people had more than enough arms. They were not 
able to secure its freedom, because the energies of the na- 
tional instinct of self-preservation, the will for self-preserva- 
tion, was lacking. The best arms are dead and useless ma- 
terial as long as the spirit is missing which is ready, willing, 
and determined to use them. Germany became defenseless, 
not because there was a shortage of arms, but because the 
will was missing to guard the arms for the preservation of 
the nation. 

If today especially our politicians of the left try to point 
to the lack of arms as the necessary cause of their irresolute 
and yielding policy, which in reality is a policy of betrayal 
to foreign powers, then one must answer them only one 
thing: No, the contrary is right. You have surrendered the 
arms by your anti-national and criminal policy of giving 



Bitterness was so great that moderate defenders of the poli- 
cies adopted since 1918 resorted to the defense that an unarmed 
Germany had no choice save acquiescence in Allied decrees. 
Hence Hitler's rejoinder. 

An attack on the German National Party, which had gained 
so dominant a position in 1924. If this party really succeeded 
in retaining large groups of Nationalist voters, Hitler's move- 
ment was doomed to failure. Therefore he taunted the con- 
servatives with their 'cowardice* in 1918 an epithet invented 
by Philipp Scheidemann, Socialist leader, after the War. The 
attack was politically shrewd. In this and subsequent passages, 
the especial situation of 1924-25 is hinted at. The German 
National leader up until October, 1924, was Oskar Hergt, an 
honest veteran civil servant, without the skill or callousnrsi 
needed to guide a party through such difficult times. 



460 MEIN KAMPF 

up national interests. Now you are trying to present the 
shortage of arms as the fundamental cause of your misera- 
ble wretchedness. This is, as everything in your activity, 
lie and fraud. 

But this reproach applies just as much to the politicians 
of the right. For thanks to their miserable cowardice, the 
Jewish rabble who had come into power in 1918 was able 
to steal the arms from the nation. They, too, have there- 
fore no reason and no right to palm off the present lack of 
arms as the necessity for their clever caution (say 4 coward- 
ice'), but the defenselessness is just the consequence of their 
cowardice. -&lt; 

Therefore, the question of regaining Germany's power is 
not, perhaps, How can we manufacture arms? but, How 
can we produce that spirit which enables a people to bear 
arms? Once this spirit dominates a people, the will finds a 
thousand ways, each of which ends with arms! But even 
if you put ten guns into the hands of a coward, yet he will 
be unable to fire one single shot in the event of an attack. 
They are therefore of less value to him than a knotty stick 
to a courageous man. 

Even for this reason the question of regaining the politi- 
cal power of our people is primarily a question of the 
recovery of our national instinct of self-preservation, since 
any preparatory foreign policy as well as every evaluation 
of a State in itself is directed, as experience shows, less 

Conservatives had inaugurated during this period a cam- 
paign for equality of armament. The argument which 
would become very familiar later on was that either the Al- 
lies must carry out their promise to disarm, or that Germany 
must be permitted to rearm. As such the plea was popular 
enough, at least potentially. Hitler and the Nazis generally 
retorted that arms would be worthless until the people had been 
inflamed with a desire to use them. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 461 

at existing arms than at the deliberate and acknow- 
ledged, or at least the presumed, moral capacity of re- 
sistance of a nation. A people's ability to form alliances is 
far less determined by a dead lot of existing arms than by 
the visible presence of a flaming will of self-preservation 
and heroic death-defying courage. For an alliance is not 
concluded with arms, but with human beings. Therefore, 
the English people must be looked upon as the most valu- 
able ally in the world as long as its leaders and the spirit 
of its great masses permit us to expect that brutality and 
toughness which is determined to fight out, by all means, 
to the victorious end a struggle once started, without con- 
sidering time and sacrifices, in which case the actual mili- 
tary armament need not be in any proportion to that of 
other States. 

But if one understands that the resurrection of the Ger- 
man nation is a question of regaining our political will of 
self-preservation, it is also clear that this is not fulfilled by 
winning elements which are national at least according to 
their will, but only by the nationalization of the deliberately 
anti-national masses. 

A young movement that sets before itself the goal of the 
re-establishment of a German State with its own sovereignty 
will have to direct its fight completely at winning the broad 
masses. No matter how wretched in general our so-called 
'national bourgeoisie 9 is, how insufficient its national loyalty 
appears, it is just as certain that from this side a serious 
resistance to a powerful national internal and external 
policy is not to be expected. Even if, for notoriously nar- 
row-minded and short-sighted reasons, the German bour- 
geoisie were to remain in passive resistance, as once it faced 
Bismarck in the hour of a coming liberation, nevertheless, 
with its acknowledged and proverbial cowardice, an active 
resistance need never be feared. 

The situation is different with the masses of our fellow 



462 MEIN KAMPF 

citizens who are internationally minded. In their primitive 
originality they are not only directed more towards the 
idea of force, but their Jewish leaders are more brutal and 
more ruthless. They will beat down any German rise just 
as once before they broke the German army's backbone. 
But above all, in this parliamentarily ruled State, by force 
of the superiority of their number, they will not only prevent 
any national foreign policy, but they will further exclude 
any higher evaluation of the German strength and with it 
any chance of potential alliances. For the weak momentum 
which lies in our fifteen million Marxists, Democrats, Paci- 
fists, and representatives of the Center is not only known to 
us, but is recognized even more by the foreign powers which 
measure the value of a possible alliance with us according 
to the weight of this burden. One does not form an alliance 
with a State in which the active part of the population has 
at least a passive attitude towards any resolute foreign 
policy. 

To this is added the fact that the leaders of these parties 
of national betrayal, merely out of their instinct of self- 
preservation, must and will be hostile to any rise. From the 
historical point of view it is simply inconceivable that the 
German people could once more take its former position 
without settling accounts with those who were the cause 
and the occasion of the unheard-of collapse which afflicted 
our State. For before the tribunal of posterity November, 
1918, will not be evaluated as high treason, but as treason 
against the country. 

Thus the regaining of German independence in foreign 
affairs is primarily connected with the regaining of the 
domestic willful unity of our people. 

f But looked at from the purely technical point of view 
the thought of a German rise as regards foreign politics 
seems absurd as long as the great masses are not ready to 
enter into the service of this idea of freedom. Taken from 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 463 

the purely military viewpoint, with a little reflection it will 
become clear, above all to every officer, that one cannot war 
against foreign powers with the help of students' battalions, 
but that for this purpose one needs, apart from the brains 
of a people, also its fists. Thereby one has to keep in mind 
that a national defense, which is based only upon the circles 
of the so-called 'intelligentsia/ would only spoil the price- 
less goods of the nation. The young German intelligentsia, 
which found its death with the voluntary regiments in the 
fields of Flanders in the fall of 1914, was sorely missing later 
on. They were the best property the nation possessed, and 
this loss could never be replaced in the course of the War. 
But it is not only impossible to carry through the fight it- 
self if the charging battalions do not have the masses of the 
workers among their ranks, but it is also impossible to carry 
out the technical preparation where the unifying will of the 
national body is missing. Just our people, which, under the 
thousand eyes of the Treaty of Versailles, has to live dis- 
armed, will be able to make technical arrangements for 



On November n, 1914, German regiments comprised of 
student volunteers stormed the French positions at Langhe- 
marcq (near Ypres) in Belgium, singing the DeutscUand song. 
The losses were fearful. This deed is looked upon as the most 
heroic in the German war record. 

The theory that the November Revolution was an act of 
high treason often led to highly emotional outbursts. Thus 
Dr. Wilhelm Frick declared in January, 1928: 'To the gallows 
with the criminals who have misgoverned us during the past 
ten years!' But oddly enough the Nazis also attacked the 
November Revolution on the ground that it was no genuine 
revolution. Speaking in Munich during 1929, Goering said: 
'Our misfortune was that this "revolution" was no German 
revolution. Therefore we know the revolution is still coming, 
and that it must, bring the release of German energies.' 



464 MEIN KAMPF 

regaining its freedom and human independence only if the 
host of professional informers is decimated to those whose 
inborn lack of character permits them to betray everything 
to everybody in return for the well-known thirty pieces of 
silver. One can manage these people. Unmanageable, how- 
ever, seem the millions of those who oppose the national 
rise out of political resistance, unless the cause of their ac- 
tivity, their international Marxist view of life, is fought and 
torn out of their hearts and brains. 

No matter, therefore, from which point of view one ex- 
amines the possibility of regaining the independence of our 
State and nation, whether from that of the preparation of 
foreign politics, that of technical armament, or from that 
of the struggle itself, there remains the preliminary winning 
over of the great masses of our people for the idea of our 
national independence as the presupposition for everything. 

But without regaining our external freedom, every idea 
of an inner reform itself remains, in the most favorable 
case, only the increase of our productivity as a colony. 
Every so-called economic uplift renders its surplus only to 
the commissions of international control, and every social 
improvement increases, in the most favorable case, only 
the capacity of working for them. Cultural achievements 
will no longer fall to the share of the German nation at all, 
they are too closely connected with the political independ- 
ence and dignity of a nationality. 



If, therefore, the German future's favorable solution is 
connected with the national winning of the great masses 
of our people, then this must also be the highest and the 
greatest task of a movement the activity of which is not to 
be exhausted in the satisfaction of the moment, but which 
has to examine every hour and every activity only as to 
their consequences for the future.** 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 465 

Thus we realized as early as 1919 that the new movement 
has to carry out, first, as its highest aim, the nationaliza- 
tion of the masses. 

As regards tactics, a series of demands resulted from this. 

(l) In order to win the masses for the national rise, no 
social sacrifice is too great. 

No matter how many economic concessions are offered 
to the classes of our workers and employees today, they are 
not in proportion to the gain for the entire nation whenever 
this helps to give back their nationality to the broad masses. 
Only short-sighted narrow-mindedness, as unfortunately is 
often found in the circles of our business men, can fail to 
acknowledge that in the long run there can be no economic 
rise for them also, and with this no economic profit, as long 
as the inner national solidarity of the nation is not restored. 



Hitler never went farther than this in criticizing the capital- 
ist system after his release from prison. Other members of the 
Party objected, and Otto Strasser openly charged him with 
having sabotaged the 'revolution. 1 (Adolph Hitler: Wilhelm 
III, by Weigand von Miltenberg.) During September, 1930, 
this difference between Hitler and the Strasser group was 
brought out into the open when three army officers were tried 
in Ulm for high treason, on the ground that they had attempted 
to build Nazi 'cells' within the Reichswehr. Hitler repudiated 
the revolutionary ideas of Strasser, but added that if the 
Nazis came to power they would court-martial the 'Novem- 
ber criminals.' The result was that Lieutenant Scheringer, one 
of the officers tried, switched to the Communist Party. The 
incident throws much light upon the strength of anti-capitalis- 
tic sentiment in Germany at the time. 

Scheringer and Strasser charged that Hitler had sold out for 
money. Therewith the question as to how the Nazi Party was 
financed had been raised, but no satisfactory answer nas ever 
been given. During its early years, funds were obtained from 
Munich friends, from the Reichswehr, and probably from White 



466 MEIN KAMPF 

If the German unions had ruthlessly guarded the interest 
of the workers during the War, they would have extorted a 
thousand times, by strike, the demands of the workers from 
the then dividend-hungry employers, even during the War, 
but if, as regards the considerations of the national defense, 
they had acknowledged their German nationality just as 
fanatically, and with the same ruthlessness, they would 
have given to the fatherland what is due the fatherland, 
then the War would not have been lost. But how ridiculous 
all and even the greatest economic concessions would have 
been as compared with the enormous importance of the 
War one would have won. 

Thus a movement which intends to give the German 
worker back to the German people has to be clear about the 
fact that economic sacrifices play no r61e whatsoever in this 
question, unless the preservation and the independence of 
the national economy are threatened by this. 

(2) The national education of the great masses can only 
take place through the d6tour of a social uplift, since ex- 
clusively by this all those general economic presuppositions 
are created which permit the individual to take part in the 
cultural goods of the nation. 

Russians who had access to foreign money. Whence came the 
stream of gold that poured through White Russian fingers is, 
indeed, one of the unsolved mysteries of post-War history. 
Certain organizers, e.g. Kurt Luedecke (cf. I Knew Hitler), have 
supplied further hints as to the sources whence support came. 
In later years abundant aid came from German industry and 
landed interests. Then the approved formula for contributions 
was a so-called 'loan* for which a 'receipt' was issued. The 
actual Mender' remained unknown, the money passing through 
the hands of some real or imaginary 'association.' How much 
Italian cash was furnished is not known. Evidence was intro- 
duced by the district attorney's office in Munich to show that 
Mussolini had helped to finance the putsch of 1923. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 467 

(3) The nationalization of the great masses can never 
take place by way of half measures, by a weak emphasis 
upon a so-called objective viewpoint, but by a ruthless and 
fanatically one-sided orientation as to the goal to be aimed 
at. That means, therefore, one cannot make a people 'na- 
tional* in the meaning of our present 'bourgeoisie,' that is, 
with so and so many restrictions, but only nationalistic 
with the entire vehemence which is harbored in the extreme. 
Poison is only checked by antidote, and only the insipidity 
of a bourgeois mind can conceive the middle line as the way 
to heaven. 

The great mass of a people consists neither of professors 
nor of diplomats. The small abstract knowledge it possesses 
directs its sentiments rather to the world of feeling. In 
this is rooted either its negative or positive attitude. It is 
open only to the expression of force in one of these direc- 
tions, and never to a half measure swaying between them. 

This hysteria was an important discovery. It was created by 
a kind of hypnotic influence seemingly exerted by the Party 
assemblies on people undoubtedly not wholly normal as a re- 
sult of the privations through which they had passed. Extraor- 
dinary phenomena of a similar kind were numerous during 
the post- War years e.g., the curious 'healer* of Hamburg, 
Hauser, who was followed by immense crowds; the Bibelfor- 
scher (Bible Students), who raised tides of adventistic emotion 
in Silesia and elsewhere; Rudolph Steiner, the anthropologist, 
who built houses resembling trees; etc. Those who heard 
Hitler during those years are unanimous in saying that he en- 
gendered a kind of emotional trance with methods quite his 
own. Party guards moved continuously round the place of as- 
sembly, and usually some interloper was found who could be 
dramatically shaken and bounced. Then there was a pause. 
Had anything gone wrong? Then Hitler appeared, looking 
as if he had run the final two hundred yards in record time, to 
unleash a torrent of words, working himself into a frenzy of 



468 MEIN KAMPF 

Their sentimental attitude, however, is caused by their ex- 
ceeding stability. It is more difficult to undermine faith 
than knowledge, love succumbs to change less than to re- 
spect, hatred is more durable than aversion, and at all 
times the driving force of the most important changes in 
this world has been found less in a scientific knowledge 
animating the masses, but rather in a fanaticism dominating 
them and in a hysteria which drove them forward. 

He who would win the great masses must know the key 
which opens the door to their hearts. Its name is not ob- 
jectivity, that is, weakness, but will power and strength. 

(4) One can only succeed in winning the soul of a people 
if, apart from a positive fighting of one's own for one's own 
aims, one also destroys at the same time the supporter of 
the contrary. 

In the ruthless attack upon an adversary the people sees 

half-somnambulistic energy that lasted for hours, and reveling 
in climaxes that were more like motifs in Wagnerian drama 
than like any kind of discourse. Perhaps he would suddenly 
break into a sort of weeping, pause, and shout ' Dcutschland, 
Dcutschland, Dcutschlandl' However the foreigner might react, 
even quite normal Germans were swept off their feet. Hitler's 
very entrance had effected an emotional release. Then his 
oratory wrung every listener dry provided that is, that he 
could bring himself to be en rapport with what was being said. 

In short, the psychology of the crowd that comes to see a 
prize-fight. The modern masses are not impressed with argu- 
ments directed against an opponent. They must see him actu- 
ally downed. And if they could then be cajoled further with 
bloodcurdling promises, all was well. The following quotation 
from the National- Sozialistischc Blatter was not intended to be 
meticulous prophecy, but its effect was calculated: 'During 
this fight, heads will roll in the sand, and they will be either 
ours or the others. Let us see to it, then, that those heads 
belong to the others! 9 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 469 

at all times a proof of its own right, and it perceives the re* 
nunciation of his destruction as an uncertainty as regards 
its own right, if not as a sign of its own wrong. 

The great masses are only a part of nature, and this 
feeling does not understand the mutual handshake of peo- 
ple who assert that they want various things. What they 
want is the victory of the stronger and the annihilation or 
the unconditional surrender of the weaker, 
t The nationalization of our masses will only be successful 
if, along with all positive fighting for the soul of our people, 
its international poisoners are extirpated. 

(5) All great questions of the times are questions of the 
moment, and they represent only consequences of certain 
causes. Only one of them is of causal importance, that is, 
the question of the racial preservation of the nationality. 
In the blood alone there rests the strength as well as the 
weakness of man. As long as the people do not recognize 
and pay attention to the importance of their racial founda- 
tion, they resemble people who would like to teach the grey- 
hound's qualities to poodles, without realizing that the 
greyhound's speed and the poodle's docility are qualities 
which are not taught, but are peculiar to the race. Peoples 
who renounce the preservation of their racial purity re- 
nounce also the unity of their soul in all its expressions. 
The torn condition of their nature is the natural, necessary 
consequence of the torn condition of their blood, and the 
change in their spiritual and creative force is only the effect 
of the change in their racial foundations. 

He who wants to redeem the German people from the 
qualities and the vices which are alien to its original nature 
will have to redeem it first from the alien originators of these 
expressions. 

Without the clearest recognition of the race problem and, 
with it, of the Jewish question, there will be no rise of the 
German nation. 



470 MEIN KAMPF 

The race question not only furnishes the key to world 
history, but also to human culture as a whole. 

(6) Making the great mass of our people, which today 
stand in the international camp, a member of a national 
people's community does not mean to renounce the repre- 
sentation of justified class interests. Class and professional 
interests are not identical with class dissension, but they 
represent a natural consequence of our economic life. The 
division into professional groups is in no way opposed to a 
genuine people's community, as the latter expresses itself 
just in the nationality's unity in all those questions which 
concern this very nationality. 

Making a professional group which has become a class 
a member of the people's community, or even of the State, 
is not carried out by the descending of the higher classes, 



Cf. Rosenberg, Westn Ziele und Grundsdtze der N.S.D.A.P. 
(The Nature, Objectives, and Principles of the N.S.G.W.P.): 
'The idea of the genuine folk-State was born out of the concept 
of race. This idea is today the final criterion of our judgment 
of all we do on earth.' It is sometimes thought that after 1933 
the Nazis had been willing to mitigate their attack upon the 
Jews, and that agitation by Jews outside Germany e.g., the 
boycott was responsible for resumption of the attack. Un- 
doubtedly the Party was impressed, especially by the Foreign 
Office, with the need for care in handling the Jewish problem 
because relations with other States might be impaired. Rosen- 
berg, for example, then director of the Foreign Affairs Division 
of the Party, declared at the Niirnberg Party Congress of 
September, 1933, that the Party did not preach, had not 
preached, race hatred. But distinguished German- Americans 
who visited Hitler during 1933 with a view to counseling 
moderation were bluntly told that they did not understand 
history or the necessary steps to be taken in regenerating the 
German people. He himself spoke on the subject at the same 
Niirnberg Congress, and declared: 'National Socialism is a 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 471 

but by the uplifting of the lower classes. Again, the bearer 
of this process can never be the higher class, but the lower 
one which is fighting for its equal right. The bourgeoisie of 
today did not become a member of the State by measures of 
the aristocracy, but by its own energy under its own leader- 
ship. 

The German worker is not lifted into the frame of the 
German people's community by the roundabout way of 
weak fraternizing scenes, but by the deliberate uplifting 
of his social and cultural position, until the most serious dif- 
ferences may be looked upon as overcome. A movement 
which establishes this development for its goal will have to 
draw its followers primarily from this camp. It is allowed 
to fall back on the intelligentsia only in so far as the latter 
has understood and realized completely the goal to be 



view of life. By absorbing the human being who belongs to 
the disciples of this view of life by reason of what is deepest 
in it, it becomes the Party of those who are really, according 
to their natures, attributable to a certain race. In doing so it 
recognized the fact that there are varying racial substances 
in our people. It is far removed from repudiating in itself this 
mixture, which constitutes the total picture of the expression 
given by our people to life. But it wishes that the political and 
cultural leadership of our people should become the function, 
the expression of that race which, through heroism, and thanks 
solely to its innate virtue, has created what would otherwise 
not be the German race. National-Socialism therewith pro- 
fesses an heroic teaching of the value of blood, or race and of 
the personality, as well as of the eternal principles on which 
selection is based, and therewith consciously enters into un- 
bridgable antitheses to the view of life which informs pacifistic- 
international democracy and its consequences.' That was, at 
least in intention, a philosophical speech; but it ought to have 
been warning enough that what has happened since was fated 
to happen even then. 



472 MEIN KAMPF 

aimed at. This process of transformation and approach will 
not be finished in ten or twenty years, but experience shows 
that it will take many generations. -&lt; 

The most serious reason against the present-day worker's 
approach towards a national people's community does not 
rest upon the representation of his class interests, but in his 
international leadership and attitude, hostile to people and 
fatherland. The same unions, led by national fanatics 
where political and folkish considerations are concerned, 
would make millions of workers the most valuable members 
of their nationality without considering the fights taking 
place in various instances where purely economic considera- 
tions are involved. 

A movement which honestly wants to give the German 
worker back to his people and to tear him away from the 
delusion of internationalism has to attack most sharply a 
conception which is predominate above all in the circles of 
employers, which, by a national community, understands 
the helpless economic surrender of the employees to the em- 
ployers, and which chooses to see, in every attempt at 
guarding even the most justified interests of the economic 
existence of the employee, an attack upon the people's com- 
munity. Such an assertion, then, is not only untrue, but 
deliberately mendacious, because the people's community 
imposes the same obligations not only on the one side but 
also on the other. 

Exactly as a worker sins against the spirit of a genuine 
people's community if, based on his power, he makes ex- 
tortionate demands without consideration for the common 
welfare and the existence of a national economy, an em- 
ployer breaks this community just as much if he abuses the 
national working strength by exploitation and an inhuman 
business management, and makes millions out of its sweat. 
Then he has no right to call himself national, he has no 
right to moan about a people's community, but he is an 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 473 

egotistical rascal, who, by introducing social discontent, 
provokes future fights which are bound to injure the nation 
in one way or another. 

Thus the reservoir from which the young movement is 
to draw its adherents will primarily be the masses of our 
employees. The task involved is to tear them from the 
grip of the delusion of internationalism, to free them from 
their social distress, to take them out of their cultural mis- 
ery, and to lead them into the circle of the people's com- 
munity as a uniform and valuable factor which feels and 
wants to be national. 

Now in so far as in the circles of the national intelligent- 
sia there are human beings with very warm hearts for their 
people and its future, filled with deepest knowledge of the 
importance of the fight for the soul of these masses, they 



Assertions were many that the suppression of Marxist or 
Christian labor organizations would not mean a disadvantage 
to labor, since they could be replaced with adequate corpora- 
tive organizations. The question as to what a workers' party 
ought to be had disturbed the German National Socialist 
Party of Austria, whose ablest leader was Rudolph Jung. 
The organization dates from 1904, but the name as stated 
was adopted at the Vienna convention of 1918. It was Pan- 
German in outlook, adopted a program having much in com- 
mon with the ideas later formulated by Feder, and was con- 
cerned primarily with the question as to whether a workers' 
party had necessarily to favor the class struggle. During 
August, 1920, the party delegates met in Salzburg, and Nazi 
delegates from Munich also attended. The resolutions adopted 
stressed above all the necessity for an ultra-nationalistic point 
of view. It did not oppose the socialization of some of the 
means of production, but emphasized the inviolability of pri- 
vate property. Hitler spoke against the class struggle at this 
convention, averring that there was as little room on the 
N.S.G.W.P: 'for a class-conscious worker as for a grouo- 



474 MEIN KAMPF 

are most welcome in the ranks of this movement as a valuable 
spiritual backbone. But the winning of the bourgeois ballot 
cattle must never be the aim or even the intention of this 
movement. In that case it would burden itself with a mass 
which, in its entire nature, would paralyze the force di- 
rected towards winning the broad layers of the people. 
For notwithstanding the theoretical beauty of the idea of 
leading together the great masses from above and from be- 
low, inside the frame of the movement and at this moment, 
yet this is opposed by the fact that by general proclama- 
tions one is perhaps able to create moods or even to render 
insight, but not qualities of character, or rather, that one 
does not wipe out bad habits the origin and growth of which 
have embraced centuries. The difference as regards the 
mutual cultural level and the mutual attitude towards the 
questions of economic concerns is still so great at this time 
that it would immediately manifest itself as an impediment, 
once the intoxication of various demonstrations has passed. 

But finally the goal is not to rearrange the layers of the 
camp that is national in itself, but to gain the anti-national 
camp. 

And this viewpoint is also exclusively decisive for the 
tactical attitude of the whole movement. 

(7) This attitude, one-sided though clear, has also to 
express itself in the propaganda of the movement, and on 
the other hand, it is in its turn required by reasons of 
propaganda. 



conscious bourgeois. 9 A year later, Jung had maneuvered his 
Aufltrians into accepting a class-conscious but anti-Marxist 
point of view. This action sundered Hitler from the Austrian 
National Socialists of the period, just as the same standpoint 
would later on sunder him from class-conscious followers in 
Germany. It is probably for this reason that he nowhere 
mentions Jung and his group. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 419 

If the propaganda IB to be effective for the movement, it 
has to be directed at one side, as in the other case, with the 
variance of the spiritual training of the two camps con- 
cerned, it would either not be understood by the one or the 
other would reject it as a matter of course and therefore as 
uninteresting. 

t Even the manner of expression and the language cannot 
be equally suitable in their effect upon two so extremely dif- 
ferent layers. If propaganda renounces the originality of 
expression, it will not find its way to the feeling of the great 
masses. But if in word and gesture it applies the coarseness 
of the masses' feelings and expressions, it will be rejected 
as rude and vulgar by the so-called intelligentsia. Among a 
hundred so-called speakers there are hardly ten who would 
be in a position to speak today with the same effect to an 
auditorium composed of street sweepers, locksmiths, 
sewer cleaners, etc., and to give on the following day a lec- 
ture of necessarily the same intellectual contents to univers- 
ity professors and students. But among a thousand 
speakers there is perhaps only a single one who is able to 
speak before locksmiths and university professors alike in a 
form which is equally satisfactory to both sides or even im- 
passions them towards a sweeping storm of applause. But 
one must keep before one's eyes that if it is to spread even 
the most beautiful thought of a sublime idea, it has to make 
use of small and smallest minds. It does not matter what 



These assertions may be correct. On the other hand, it is 
also possible to assume as many do that Hitler's triumph 
was not due to the 'stupid masses 9 which come to hear him 
peak, but to the intellectual reconstruction which the na- 
tionalist intelligentsia placed on Pan-German Socialism. 
For an analysis of these intellectuals, cf . Heiden and Kolnai. 
Heiden (who is critical) says they were discalced bourgeois who 
needed a new basis on which to attain to power and station. 



476 MEIN KAMPF 

the ingenious inventor of an opinion has before his eye, but 
what its announcers transmit to the great masses, and in 
what form and with what success they do so. 

The strength of Social Democracy, even of the entire 
Marxist movement as a whole, in its capacity of an attract- 
ing force, rested for the greater part upon the unity and thus 
on the one-sidedness of the public to which they appealed. 
The more apparently limited, even narrow-minded, their 
trends of thinking were in this, the more easily were they 
accepted and worked over by the masses, the mental level 
of which corresponded to the food they were offered. But 
from this resulted also a simple and clear line for the new 
movement:^ 

Propaganda, in its contents and form, has to be directed 
at the great masses and its efficiency has to be measured 
exclusively by its effective success. 

At a meeting of the broad layers of a people not that 
speaker speaks best whose mentality is nearest to the in- 
telligentsia present, but he who conquers the heart of the 
masses. 

A member of the intelligentsia who is present at such a 
meeting and who criticizes the speaker, despite his obvious 
success in respect to the lower classes to be conquered, 
proves the complete inability of his thinking and the use- 
lessness of his person for the young movement. For this 



These requirements were met perfectly by Dr. Paul Joseph 
Goebbels. Born in the Rhineland, for a time recipient of a 
scholarship in a Catholic educational institution, later a 
favorite pupil of Friedrich Gundolf and therewith an initiate 
into the mysteries of the Stefan George school, he was at first 
doubtless filled with honest resentment of social conditions in 
Germany. He once offered his services to the Social Demo- 
crats. AM a Nazi he first served as an assistant to Gregor 
Strasaer in Berlin, and then in a moment of crisis abandoned 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 477 

movement only that intellectual comes into question who 
has understood the task and the goal of the movement to 
such an extent that he has also learned to judge the activity 
of propaganda according to its success and not according to 
the impressions which it makes upon himself. For the pur- 
pose of propaganda is not the amusement of people who al- 
ready are disposed towards nationalism, but the winning of 
the enemies of our nationality, in so far as they are of the 
same blood. 

But, generally speaking, those ideas which I have already 
summed up briefly under the heading of war propaganda 
should become decisive for the kind and the execution of 
the young movement's own work of enlightenment. 

Its success proved that it was right. 

(8) The goal of a political reform movement will never be 
reached by a work of enlightenment or by influencing the 
ruling powers, but only by the gaining of the political 
power. Every idea aimed at changing the world has not 
only the right but also the duty to assure itself of those 
means which make possible the carrying-out of its ideas. 
Its success is the only wordly judge of the right or the wrong 
of such an enterprise, whereby the word success one must 
not understand, as in the year 1918, the seizure of power 
in itself, but its effective consequences beneficial to the 
nationality. Thus a coup d'ttat must not be looked upon 
as successful, as thoughtless State attorneys of Germany 
mean today, if the revolutionaries succeeded in seizing con- 

Strasaer and went over to Hitler. Admittedly an unprincipled 
opportunist, he has been termed the 'Nazi Radek* and the 
1 Nazi Mephisto.' But behind the exterior of club foot, big nose, 
receding chin, and nervous movements, there is an extraordi- 
narily mobile intelligence. Ae a speaker he still captivates 
younger German intellectuals as no other man in the Party 
does. 



478 MEIN KAMPF 

trol of the State, but only if from the intentions and aims 
upon which such a revolutionary action is based there arises 
a higher welfare for the nation than that which existed 
under the previous r6gime. Something which cannot very 
well be said of the German Revolution as the gangster raid 
of the fall of 1918 is called. 

But if the gaining of the political power forms the pre- 
supposition for the practical execution of reformatory in- 
tentions, then a movement with such an intention must 
consider itself from the first day of its existence as a move- 
ment of the masses and not as a literary tea club or a philis- 
tine bowling club. 

(9) The young movement, according to its structure and 
its inner organization, is anti-parliamentarian; that means 
in general, and in its inner construction, it rejects a princi- 
ple of a decision by the majority, by which the leader is 
degraded' to the position of the executive of the will and 
the opinion of the others. The movement, in small things 
as well as big things, represents the principle of a Germanic 
democracy : choice of the leader, but absolute authority of 
the latter. 

The practical consequences of this principle in the move- 
ment are the following : 

The first chairman of a local group is elected, but he alone 
is then also its responsible director. All committees are 
under his jurisdiction and not inversely, he under that of a 
committee. There are no committees by election, but only 
committees for work. The work is divided up by the re- 
sponsible director, the first chairman. The same principle 
applies also to the next higher organization, the precinct, 
the district, or county. The first chairman is always elected, 
but with this he is the exclusive leader of the movement. 
All committees are subjected to him and not he to the com- 
mittees. He decides, and with this he also takes the re- 
sponsibility on his shoulders. The followers of the move- 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 479 

ment are at liberty to call him to account before the forum 
of a new election, to divest him of his office, in so far as he 
has violated the principles of the movement or has served 
its interests badly. But in his place there then steps the 
more efficient, the new man, with the same authority, but 
also with the same responsibility. 

It is one of the primary tasks of the movement to make 
this the determining principle, not only within its own 
ranks, but also for the entire State. 

He who wants to be the leader bears, with the highest, 
unrestricted authority, also the ultimate and the most 
serious responsibility. 

He who is not able to do this or who is too great a 
coward to bear the consequences of his activity is unsuitable 
to be the leader. Only the hero is chosen for this. 

Progress and the culture of mankind, however, are not 
products of the majority, but they rest exclusively upon the 
genius and the energy of the personality. 

To breed and to establish it in its rights is one of the 
preliminary conditions of regaining our nationality's great- 
ness and power. 

With this, however, the movement is anti-parliamenta- 
rian, and even its share in such an institution can only have 
the meaning of an activity for the smashing of the latter, 
for the abolition of an institution in which we see one of the 
most serious symptoms of mankind's decay. 

(10) The movement decidedly refuses to define its atti- 
tude towards questions which either lie outside the frame 
of its political work, or which are unimportant for it because 
they are not of fundamental significance. Its task is not 
that of a religious reformation, but that of a political re- 
organization of our people. In the two religious denomina- 
tions it sees two equally valuable pillars for the existence of 
our people, and for this reason it fights those parties which 
wish to degrade this foundation of an ethical, religious, and 



480 MEIN KAMPF 

moral prop of our national body to the instrument of their 
party interests. 

Finally, the movement sees its task, not in the re- 
establishment of a certain State form or in the struggle 
against another, but in the creation of those principle- 
foundations without which neither republic nor monarchy 
can exist in the long run. Its mission is not the foundation 
of a monarchy or the strengthening of a republic, but 
rather the creation of a Germanic State. 

The question of the external formation of this State, 
that means, its coronation, is not of fundamental impor- 
tance, but is conditioned only by questions of practical ex- 
pediency. 

Once a people has understood the great problems and 
tasks of its existence, the question of external formalities 
will no longer lead to inner struggles. 

(n) The question of the movement's inner organization 
is one of expediency and not of principle. 

The best organization is not that which puts the greatest, 
but that which puts the smallest, apparatus of mediation 
between the leaders of an organization and the individual 
followers. For the task of the organization is only to trans- 
mit a certain spiritual idea, which first springs from the head 



At the time this was written, the Party had not yet pledged 
itself to a Fascist ideology. Its organization was modeled after 
the pattern of the Free Corps, or 'private* soldier groups. 
Some important personalities, notably General von Epp, were 
still loyal to the monarchical idea. Others felt that a republic 
was the desirable form, provided the right people were running 
it. In addition the laws forbidding agitation against the 
Republic exacted caution. The precept enjoining restraint in 
the discussion of religion was dictated by similar considera- 
tions. Openly professed anti-clericalism would have brought 
down on Hitler's head the wrath of the Bavarian government. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 4S1 

of an individual, to a multitude of people, as well as the 
supervision of its execution. 

With this the organization is in all and everything only 
a necessary evil. In the best case it is a means to an end, 
in the worst case an end in itself. 

As the world is able to produce more mechanical beings 
than spiritual and ideal ones, the forms of the organization 
usually form themselves more easily than ideas in them- 
selves. 

The practical development of every idea that strives for 
realization in this world, especially that which has a re- 
formatory character, is, in broad outlines, the following: 

An ingenious idea originates in the brains of a man who 
now feels himself called upon to transmit his knowledge to 
the rest of mankind : he now preaches his views and gradu- 
ally he gains a certain circle of followers. This state of the 
direct and personal transmittal of the ideas of a man to the 
rest of the world is the most ideal and the most natural one. 
With the increase of the followers of the new doctrine, there 
gradually results the impossibility of the bearers of the idea 
to continue personally to influence and to lead and to guide 
the countless adherents. In the same measure now in which 
the direct and the shortest intercourse is excluded, in con- 
sequence of the growth of the community, there appears the 
necessity of connecting members: with this the ideal condi- 
tion is ended, and it is replaced by the necessary evil of an 
organization. Small sub-groups are formed, which in the 
political movement, for instance in the form of a local 
group, represent the germ cells for the future organization, 
f If one does not want to lose the uniformity of the doc- 
trine, this subdivision must take place only after the 
authority of the spiritual founder and the school he has 
called into life may be looked upon as recognized. In con- 
nection with this, the geo-political importance of a center of 
a movement cannot be overrated. Only the presence of 



482 MEIN KAMPF 

such a center and of a place, bathed in the magic of a Mecca 
or a Rome, can at length give a movement that force which 
is rooted in the inner unity and in the recognition of a head 
that represents this unity. 

Thus, when forming the first organizing germ cells, one 
must never forget the need of not only preserving the im- 
portance of the original starting place of the idea, but also 
to increase it to a superior one. This increasing of the ideal, 
moral and actual transcendent importance of the starting 
and leading point of the movement, has to be carried out 
in the same measure in which now the lowest germ cells of 
the movement, the number of which has become countless, 
demand new alliances in the form of organizations. 

For as soon as the increasing number of single adherents 
and the impossibility of a further direct contact with them 
leads to the formation of lowest groups, the final countless 
increase of these lowest forms of organization commands 
the formation of higher groups which, politically speaking, 
one can then call perhaps county or district groups. 

For no matter how easy it may be to maintain the 
authority of the original center as compared with the lowest 
local groups, it will be just as difficult to preserve this posi- 
tion in the face of the higher forms of organization now de- 
veloping. But this is the presumption for the uniform 
existence of a movement and with it for the carrying-out 
of an idea. 

Finally, if also the greater middle divisions begin to 
shape themselves into uniform structures, then, even in the 

This extraordinary code, by which the dynamism of the 
Party was placed on a secure foundation, was pushed through 
by Hitler at a Party meeting on July 26 and 27, 1921. At the 
time serious divisions among the members threatened to 
undermine the stability of the whole enterprise. Drexler and 
most of his group resented the influence of Rosenberg, Feder, 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 483 

face of these, the difficulty of safeguarding the absolutely 
leading character of the original place of foundation, its 
school, etc., is also increased. 

Therefore, the mechanical forms of an organization may 
only be worked out in the same measure in which the spirit- 
ual and ideal authority of a center seems to be uncondi- 
tionally safeguarded. For political formations this guar- 
anty can often appear to be given only by the practical 
power. ^ From this short description the following lines of 
direction for the inner structure of the movement result: 

(a) Concentration of the entire work first in a single 
place, Munich. Formation of a community of absolutely 
reliable adherents and establishment of a school for the 
future spreading of the idea. The gaining of the future 

Hess, and others. These they considered 'too intellectual/ 
Julius Streicher was also not ready to bow to the yoke of 
dictatorship. Hitler had gone to Berlin ostensibly to take 
lessons in public speaking, and had there discussed with several 
Junkers the feasibility of transferring Party headquarters to 
Berlin. The meeting led to nothing. The Junkers had ex- 
pected to do all the talking, and instead found themselves 
listening. Meanwhile Drexler and his friends were also de- 
bating a trek to Berlin, presumably in the hope of thus getting 
rid of Hitler. The Party meeting, suddenly decided upon, 
was therefore of crucial importance; and the whip was cracked 
over Drexler's head. Hitler threatened to quit, pointed out 
that the Party's influential friends were his friends, and left 
the assembly with nothing to do but capitulate. Thereupon 
Max Amann, later on official chief of the Nazi press, was in- 
stalled as business manager of the Party, and Hitler laid down 
the rules here enumerated. Most interesting doubtless was 
the declaration that no groups outside Munich were to be 
recognized until they had accepted Munich's leadership. This 
left Streicher feeling the edge of the axe. In 1922 he capitu- 
lated. 



484 MEIN KAMPF 

necessary authority by successes, visible and as great aa 

possible, in this place only. 

In order to advertise the movement and its leaders, it 
was necessary not only to shake the confidence in the in- 
vincibility of the Marxist doctrine in one place, visible to 
all, but also to prove, if possible, the contrary. 

(b) Formation of local groups only after the authority 
of the central leading group in Munich may be looked upon 
as unconditionally recognized. 

f (c) The formation of district, county, or country groups 
also takes place, not only according to the demand in itself, 
but only after the security of an unconditional recognition 
of the central office has been achieved. 

Further, the formation of organizing structures depends 
on the heads which are present and which can come under 
consideration as leaders. 

For this there are two ways: 

(a) The movement has at its disposal the necessary 
financial means for the training and schooling of able heads 
for the future leadership. The material it thus has won is 
methodically employed according to the points of view of 
tactical and other expediency. 

This is the easier and the quicker way; but it requires 
great financial means, as this leader material is able to 
work for the movement only if it is paid. 

(&amp;) The movement, in consequence of the lack of funds, 
is not in a position to install appointed leaders, but has to 
depend on honorary offices at first. 

This is the slower and the more difficult way. 

The leadership of the movement must leave large fields 
uncultivated, provided there does not emerge from the 
followers a head who is able and willing to put himself at 
the disposal of the leaders, and to organize and to lead the 
movement in the particular field. 

It may happen that in great districts nobody is found, 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 495 

but that in other places two or even three approximately 
equally able people come forth. The difficulty which lies 
in such a development is great and can only be overcome 
after many years. 

The presumption for the creation of an organizing form 
is, and always remains, a head that is able to take over 
the leadership. 

Just as an army has no value in its organizing forms 
without its officers, thus a political movement is just as 
useless without the appropriate leader. 

When an appropriate leading personality is lacking, the 
omission of the formation of a local group is of greater 
use to the movement than its organization which failed in 
consequence of the lack of a leading and progressive head.-*- 

The leadership proper not only demands will power, but 
also ability, whereby one has to ascribe a greater importance 
to will power and energy than to genius itself, and most 
valuable is a combination of ability, determination, and 
perseverance. 

(12) The future of a movement is conditioned by the 
fanaticism, even more the intolerance, with which its ad- 
herents present it as the only right one and enforce it in 
the face of other formations of a similar kind. 

It is the greatest mistake to believe that the strength 
of a movement is increased by uniting it with another one 
of similar character. Each enlargement brought about in 
this way means, first, of course, an apparent increase in its 
outward size and with it also an increase of power in the 
eyes of superficial observers, but in reality it only takes 
over the germs for an inner weakening that will become 
effective later. 

t For no matter what one may say of the equality ot two 
movements, in reality it never exists. For if it did it would 
practically be, not two, but only one, movement. No 
matter where the differences lie and if they root only in 



486 MEIN KAMPF 

the different abilities of the leaders they exist. The 
coupling of two not quite equal formations does not cor- 
respond to the natural law of evolution, but the victory of 
the stronger in the tense struggle, and the breeding of the 
strength and the force of the victor made possible by this. 

By uniting two approximately equal political formations 
there may arise momentary advantages, but every success 
gained in this way is the cause of inner weaknesses appearing 
later. 

The greatness of a movement is exclusively guaranteed 
by the unrestricted development of its inner strength and 
by the latter's permanent increase up to its final victory 
over all competitors. 

Yes, one can even say that its strength and with it its 
justification of existence increases only as long as it acknow- 
ledges the principle of fight as the presumption of its devel- 
opment, and that it has passed the climax of its strength 
in the moment when the complete victory is on its side. 

Thus it is only useful for a movement to aspire to this 
victory in a form which does not lead to a momentary 
victory, but which gives it a long period of growth due to 
the long duration of the struggle caused by absolute intol- 
erance. 

Movements, which owe their growth only to the so-called 
fusion of similar formations that means compromises 
are like hothouse plants. They shoot up, but they lack the 
strength to defy centuries and to resist heavy storms. -4- 

The greatness of every powerful organization as the in- 
corporation of an idea in this world is rooted in the religious 

This reproduces in part the reasoning of Sorel. It is worthy 
of note that the same idea, which probably originated with 
the French pholosopher, Auguste Comte, now reappears in 
the ideology of almost every revolutionary movement bent 
on doing exactly the opposite of what Christianity set out to do. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 487 

fanaticism with which it intolerably enforces itself against 
everything else, fanatically convinced of its own right. If 
an idea is right in itself, and if thus armed it embarks on 
the struggle in this world, it is invincible and every perse- 
cution will lead to its inner strengthening. 

The greatness of Christianity was not rooted in its 
attempted negotiations of compromise with perhaps simi- 
larly constructed philosophical opinions of the old world, 
but in the inexorably fanatical preaching and representa- 
tion of its own doctrine. 

The apparent advance which movements obtain by 
fusions is simply overtaken by the permanent growth of 
the strength of a doctrine that remains independent and 
that defends itself. 

(13) The movement has to educate its members in prin- 
ciple in a way that in the fight they do not see something 
that has been negligently put together, but something that 
is aimed at. Therefore, they must not fear the hostility of 
the adversaries, but they should perceive it as the presump- 
tion for the justification of their own existence. They must 
not shun the hatred of the enemies of our nationality and 
our view of life and its expressions, but they should long 
for it. But to the expressions of this hatred lie and calumny 
also belong. 

He who is not fought that means slandered and 
abused by the Jewish papers is not a decent German 
and no true National Socialist. The best standard for the 
value of his loyalty, the honesty of his conviction, and 
the force of his will is the hostility which he encounters 
on the part of the mortal enemy of our people. 

It must be pointed out again and again to the adherents 
of the movement, and in a wider sense to the entire people, 
that the Jew always lies in his papers, and that even a 
once asserted truth serves only to cover a greater fraud, 
and thus in turn it is again deliberate untruth. The Jew 



488 MEIN KAMPF 

is the great master of lying, and lie and deception are his 
weapons in the fight. 

Every Jewish defamation and every Jewish lie is an 
honorary scar on the body of our fighters. 

He is nearest to us whom they abuse most, and he is our 
best friend whom they hate most mortally. 

He who picks up a Jewish newspaper in the morning 
without finding himself abused in it has not usefully applied 
the previous day; for if it were so, he would be persecuted, 
slandered, abused, cursed, and sullied by the Jew. And 
only he who most successfully opposes this mortal enemy 
of our nationality and of every Aryan people and culture 
has the right also to hope for himself for the calumnies of 
this race and thus for the attack of his people. 

If these principles enter the flesh and the blood of our 
adherents, the movement will become unshakable and 
invincible. 

(14) The movement has to promote the respect for the 
personality by all means; it must never forget that the 
value of all that is human is rooted in the personal value, 
and that every idea and every achievement are the results 
of the creative force of a man, and that the admiration for 
the greatness is not only a tribute of thanks to the latter, 
but that it also winds a unifying band around the grateful. 
f The person cannot be replaced ; especially in cases when 
it does not represent the mechanical, but the cultural and 
creative, element. As little as a famous master can be 
replaced and another able to complete the painting which 
he left behind half finished, just as little can one replace the 
great poet and thinker, the great statesman and the great 
general. For their activity lies always in the field of art; 
it has not been bestowed on them by mechanical education, 
but is born in them by divine grace. 

The greatest transformations and achievements in this 
world, their greatest cultural results, the immortal deeds 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 489 

in the field of statesmanship, etc., are inseparably con- 
nected forever with a name and are represented by it, 
The renunciation of the homage to a great mind meant 
the loss of an immense energy which streams forth from 
the names of all great men and also women of this earth. 

The Jew knows this best of all. Just he, whose great men 
are only great in the destruction of mankind and its culture, 
sees to their idolatrous admiration. He attempts to pic- 
ture the people's admiration for their own geniuses as 
unworthy and stamps it with the word 'worship of the 
person/ 

As soon as a people becomes so cowardly that it succumbs 
to this Jewish arrogance and impudence, it renounces the 
powerful energy it possesses; for the latter is not based 
upon the admiration for the masses, but upon the venera- 
tion of the genius and the elation and the devotion brought 
about by him. 

If human hearts break and human souls despair, then 
the great conquerors of distress and worry, of shame and 
misery, of spiritual bondage and physical coercion, look 
down upon them, out of the twilight of the past, and offer 
their eternal hands to the despairing mortals! 

Woe to the people that is shamed of seizing them! ^ 



In the first period of the growth of our movement, 
nothing made us suffer more than our insignificance, the 
very fact that our names were not known made our success 
doubtful. But the most difficult thing at that time, during 

This has since been done efficiently enough. Hitler is the 
Messiah, whose faith is that which alone can save the world, 
in to far as the German people are concerned. Wilhelm Kube 
and Robert Ley, both prominent officials, have likened him 
to Christ. For many for himself, too he is the mouth- 



490 MEIN KAMPF 

which often only six, seven, or eight heads came together 
in order to listen to the words of a speaker, was to awaken 
the faith in the powerful future of the movement and to 
preserve it in this small circle. 

f Think of six or seven men, all poor devils without 
names, joining together with the intention of forming a 
movement which is supposed to succeed some day in doing 
what the powerful great parties of the masses failed to do, 
the re-erection of a German Reich with greater power and 
glory! If we had been attacked at that time, nay, if one 
had only laughed at us, we would have been happy in both 
events. For the depressing thing was neither the one nor 
the other, but it was only the complete lack of attention 
we encountered at that time. 

This was true most of all for my person. 

When I entered the circle of the few men, there could be 
the question neither of a party nor of a movement. I have 
already described my impressions on the occasion of my 
first meeting with this small formation. In the weeks that 
followed thereafter, I had time and occasion to study the 
then impossible appearance of this so-called party. The 
picture was, God knows, really a depressing one. There 
existed nothing, really nothing at all. The name of a party, 
the committee of which represented practically the entire 
body of members, which in one way or another was just 
that which they tried to fight, a parliament on a small scale. 
Here also voting ruled, and if the great parliaments at least 
shouted their throats hoarse for months about great 
problems, here in this small circle endless discussions set in 

piece of German Providence. By others he is surrounded with 
the adjectives once applied to Stefan George by his 'circle.' 
Still more effective is the slogan, 'Ein Reich, ein Yolk, rin 
Ftihrcr,' which the Nazis chant at every demonstration. 
The meaning is, 4 One Reich, one folk, one leader/ 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 491 

about the answer to a letter that had fortunately arrived! 

The public, of course, knew nothing at all about all this. 
No person in Munich knew the party even by name, except 
for its few adherents and their few friends. 

Each Wednesday there took place a so-called committee 
meeting in one of the Munich cafes, once a week a discus* 
sion evening. As all the members of the 'movement' were 
at first represented in the committee, the persons were 
naturally always the same. The question involved was 
now to break the small circle at last, to win new followers, 
but above all to make the name of the movement known 
at any price. 

The technique of this procedure was the following :-4 

We tried every month, later on every fortnight, to hold 
a 'meeting.' The invitations for this were written on a 
typewriter and partly by hand on pieces of paper, and the 
first few times they were distributed that is, carried 
out by us personally. Each of us turned to his circle 
of friends in order to move the one or the other to visit 
one of these meetings. 

The success was a miserable one. 

I still remember how in this first period I myself once 
carried out about eighty of these bills, and how in the 
evening we waited for the masses of people that were 
to come. 

With one hour's delay the chairman had finally to open 
the meeting. We were again seven men, the old seven. 

We proceeded to have the invitation bills written and 
multiplied by machine by a Munich stationery shop. The 
result was a few spectators more at the next meeting* 
Thus the number rose gradually from eleven to thirteen, 
finally to seventeen, to twenty- three, and to thirty-four 
listeners. 

The funds were brought together by very small collec 
tions in the circle of us poor devils, so that at last we were 



492 MEIN KAMPF 

able to announce a meeting by an advertisement in the 
then independent Munchner Beobachter in Munich. This 
time the success was indeed astonishing. We had arranged 
a meeting at the Munich Hofbrauhaus Keller (not to be 
confused with the Munich Hofbrauhaus Festsaal), a small 
hall which could hardly accommodate one hundred and 
thirty persons. To me personally the room seemed like 
a great hall, and each of us was afraid whether we would 
succeed in filling this 'mighty* building with people on the 
particular evening. 

At seven o'clock one hundred and eleven persons were 
present, and the meeting was opened. 

A Munich professor made the principal speech, and I 
for the first time in public was to speak second. 

In the eyes of the then first chairman of the party, 
Herr Harrer, the affair seemed a great venture. The other- 
wise certainly decent gentleman could not help being con- 
vinced that I could do everything but speak. Even in the 
future one could not alter his opinion. 

Events took a different course. I had been granted 
twenty minutes' speaking time in the first meeting to be 
addressed to the public. 

I spoke for thirty minutes, and what formerly I had 
felt in my mind, without knowing it somehow, was now 
proved by reality. I could speak. After thirty minutes the 
small room filled with people was electrified, and the en- 
thusiasm found its expression first in the fact that my appeal 
to the willingness to sacrifice led the audience to donate 
three hundred Marks. Through this we were relieved of 
great anxiety. In those days the financial restriction was 
so great that we did not even have the opportunity of 
having the leading principles of the movement printed, or 
even leaflets published. Now the foundation was laid for 
a small fund from which then at least the barest necessi- 
ties and our urgent needs could be covered. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 493 

But the success of this first greater meeting was important 
also in another direction. 

At that time I started to bring a number of fresh young 
forces to the committee. The many years I had spent with 
the army made me acquainted with a great number of 
faithful comrades who now slowly began to join the move- 
ment, moved by my persuasion. They were all energetic 
young men, accustomed to discipline, and in their time in 
the army they had been educated according to the prin- 
ciple: nothing is impossible, and everything can be done 
if one wants to. 

But how necessary such an influx of new blood was, I 
myself could recognize after a few weeks' cooperation. 

The then first chairman of the party, Herr Harrer, was 
actually a journalist and as such he was certainly exten- 
sively educated. He had, of course, a burden that was 
exceedingly heavy for the leader of a party; he was not a 
speaker for the masses. No matter how painstakingly exact 
he was in his work, yet it lacked, perhaps just in consequence 
of this lack of great oratorical talent, the great sweep. 
Herr Drexler, who was then chairman of the local group 
of Munich, was a simple workman, as a speaker equally 
little important, and for the rest he was not a soldier. 
He had not served with the army, also during the War he 
was not a soldier, so that he, whose entire nature was weak 
and uncertain, lacked the only school which made it pos- 
sible to turn uncertain and weak characters into men. 
This was, therefore, not the material equipped, not only 
able to harbor in its bosom the faith in the victory of a 
movement, but also with unshakable will power and, if 
necessary, with the most brutal ruthlessness, to do away 
with the obstacles which might step in the way of the 
rise of the new idea. For this, only those beings were 
suited whose spirit and body had assumed those military 
virtues which may perhaps best be described thus: quick 



494 MEIN KAMPF 

as greyhounds, tough as leather, and hard as Ki-upp steel. 

At that time I myself was still a soldier. My exterior 
and my interior had been shaped for almost six years so 
that at first I was probably looked upon as strange in this 
circle. I, too, no longer knew the words: one cannot do 
this, or this won't be possible; one cannot risk this, it is 
still too dangerous at this moment, etc. 

Of course, the thing was dangerous. Just as little as the 
reds took notice of a bourgeois bunkum club, the inner 
harmlessness of which they knew better than its own 
members, they were just as determined to do away by all 
means with a movement that seemed dangerous to them. 
Their most effective means in such cases were, however, 
at all times terror and force. 

In the year 1920, in many parts of Germany, a national 
meeting that dared to direct an appeal to the great masses 
and to extend an invitation publicly to visit it was simply 
impossible. The participants at such a meeting were dis- 
persed and driven away with bleeding heads. Such a trick, 
however, did not require much skill, as even the greatest 
so-called bourgeois mass meeting usually could be broken 
up by a dozen communists and made to disperse and take 
to its heels like hares before a dog. 

But naturally a movement, the exact goal of which was 
the winning of those masses which so far stood exclusively 
in the service of the international Marxist Jewish and 
stock exchange parties, was most loathsome to the Marxist 
betrayers of the people. The mere name ' German Workers' 
Party' had an irritating effect. Therefore, one could easily 
imagine that at the first suitable opportunity, they would 
begin to settle accounts with the Marxist drivers who 
were then still intoxicated by victory, 
f In the small circle of the movement of that time one 
was to a certain extent afraid of such a fight. One wanted 
to appear in public as little as possible for fear of being 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 49S 

beaten. In one's mind one saw the first great meeting 
blown up and the movement then perhaps done away with 
forever. I had a great deal of trouble with my opinion that 
one could not evade this fight, but that one had to meet 
it, and, furthermore, that for this reason one had to pro- 
cure that kind of armament which alone gives protection 
against force. Terror is not broken by power of mind, but 
by terror. The success of the first meeting strengthened my 
position in this direction. One gained courage for a second 
meeting, now already planned on a somewhat larger scale. 

About October, 1919, the second larger meeting took 
place in the Eberlbraukeller. Subject: Brest-Litovsk and 
Versailles. Four gentlemen appeared as speakers. I myself 
spoke for almost an hour, and the success was greater than 
on the occasion of the first demonstration. The number 
attending had risen to over a hundred and thirty-one. An 
attempted disturbance was at once nipped in the bud by 
my comrades. The disturbing individuals were thrown 
downstairs with their heads knocked about. 

Two weeks later another meeting took place in the same 
hall. The number attending had risen to over one hundred 
and seventy. With this the room was well filled. I spoke 



The bourgeois were not quite as passive as is here indicated. 
Immediately after the revolution of 1918, two associations 
were established in Berlin for the purpose of combating Bol- 
shevism. Both had money, arms and influence. The first 
assembly of protest in the history of the Republic was called 
by the Berlin Center Party in 1918, under the leadership of 
Dr. Maximilian Pfeiffer. Over 30,000 people attended, marched 
through the streets, and even threatened to throw Adolf 
Hoffmann Prussian Minister of Culture, and an Independent 
Socialist out of his office. The Spartacists seldom disturbed 
bourgeois political assemblies, venting all their spleen on the 
Majority Socialists. 



496 MEIN KAMPF 

again, and again the success was greater than during the 
preceding meeting.-* 

I stressed the necessity of a larger hall. Finally we 
found one at the other end of the city in the German Reich 
in the Dachauer Strasse. The meeting in the new rooms 
was not so well attended as the previous one: hardly one 
hundred and forty people. The committee's hopes began 
to sink again, and the eternal doubters believed that they 
saw in the too frequent repetition of our 'manifestations' 
the cause of the poor attendance. Violent arguments took 
place, during which I represented the opinion that a city 
of seven hundred thousand inhabitants should be able to 
stand a meeting not only every second week, but ten meet- 
ings every week; that we should not allow ourselves to be 
deterred by failures; that the road on which we had set 
out was the right one, and that success was bound sooner 
or later to come if we continued the same perpetual per- 
sistency. On the whole, the entire winter of 1919-20 was 
one single fight to strengthen the faith in the victorious 
power of the young movement and to increase it to that 
fanaticism which then, in the form of faith, is able to move 
mountains. 

The next meeting in the same hall again proved that I 
was right. The number attending had risen to over two 
hundred, the outward as well as the financial success was 
brilliant. 

I urged the immediate settling of another meeting. It 
took place barely two weeks later, and the crowd of listeners 
rose to more than two hundred and seventy heads. 

Two weeks later we called together for the fourth time 
adherents and friends of the young movement and the 
same room was hardly able to hold the people, the number 
had risen to over four hundred. 

t At this time the inner formation of the young movement 
took place. Many times this caused more or less violent 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 497 

discussions in the small circle. From various sides (and still 
today) the naming of the young movement as a party was 
being criticized. I have always looked upon such an opin- 
ion as the proof of the practical inability and the mental 
smallness of such a mind. There were and are those people 
who are always unable to distinguish the exterior from the 
interior, and who try to evaluate a movement according to 
the highly bombastic sounding titles, for which purpose 
unfortunately the vocabulary of our forefathers has to lend 
itself. 

In those days it was difficult to make people understand 
that every movement, as long as it has not reached the 
victory of its ideas, and with it its goal, is a party, even 
when it assumes a different name a thousand times. 

If a man wants to bring to practical execution a bold 
idea, the realization of which seems useful to the interest 
of his fellow citizens, he will first have to look for adherents 
who are ready to stand up for his idea. And if the intention 
were only to destroy the parties existing at the time, to 
end the split-up, then the representatives of this opinion, 
and the propagators of this decision themselves are a party 
until their goal may be looked upon as reached. It is hair- 
splitting and humbug if then some antiquated folkish theo- 
retician, whose practical successes are in the reverse propor- 



Emerson has defined genius as an ' infinite capacity for taking 
pains.' Junius Alter writes (cf. Nation&amp;listen): 'Hitler was the 
first to manage the feat of opening a wide breach in the Marxist 
ranks and winning back to the ideas of Fatherland and folk 
not thousands merely but hundreds of thousands of German 
workers, particularly those of the younger generation. That 
this was not possible with pastoral exhortations and well- 
meaning little tracts, with charity bazaars and other similar 
* Humanitarian ' trinkets, is evident. Marxism could be beaten 
only with its own weapons.' 



498 MEIN KAMPF 

tion to his wisdom, imagines that by a change in its title he 
can change the character which every young movement as 
a party has. 

On the contrary. 

If anything is contrary to the spirit of the people, it is 
this juggling with especially old Germanic expressions 
which neither have a place in this time nor represent any- 
thing definite, but which can easily lead to measuring the 
significance of a movement by its outward vocabulary. 
This is a real nuisance, which, however, one may observe 
today innumerable times. 

On the whole, even then and also in the time following I 
had to warn again and again against those wandering Ger- 
man folkish scholars whose positive achievement is always 
equal to naught, but whose conceit can hardly be excelled. 
The young movement had and has to guard itself against 
an influx of people whose sole recommendation is mostly 
their declaration that they have fought for the same idea 
for thirty or even forty years. But a person who for forty 
years has stood up for a so-called idea without being able 
personally to bring about even the smallest success, even 
without having prevented the victory of the opposition, 
has established the proof of his own inability in a fort} 
years' activity. The danger is rooted in the fact that such 



Immediately after the War, the Deutsch-volkischc Schutz und 
Trutzbund spread like lightning over various parts of Germany, 
preaching anti-Semitism and resistance to the Allies. It was 
undoubtedly an important disseminator of ideas which event- 
ually coalesced in the Nazi Weltanschauung, but the theoretical 
character of its discussions prevented longevity as an organiza- 
tion. The Dcutsch Vdlkischc Freiheitspartci, which in 1924 
seemed destined to become the organization of which Hitler 
had always dreamed, was likewise steered by Graefe into waters 
cm which no boat could stay afloat. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 499 

tools do not want to join as members in the movement, but 
that they babble about leading circles in which alone they 
are able to see a suitable place for further activity, based 
upon their original activity. But woe if one gives a young 
movement into the hands of such people! As little as a 
business man, who in forty years' activity has methodically 
ruined a big business, is suited to become the founder of a 
new one, just as little is such a folk Methuselah (who in 
the same time messed up a great idea and brought it to 
calcification) suitable for the leadership of a new and young 
movement ! 

For the rest, only a fraction of all these people comes into 
the new movement in order to serve it, but in most cases 
to be able to rake up an old story under its protection and 
because of the possibilities it offers. 

They do not wish to be useful to the idea of the new 
doctrine, but it is only supposed to give them the possi- 
bility of making humanity unhappy once more through 
their own ideas. For what kind of ideas these are can 
hardly be told. 

The characteristic of most of these natures is that they 
abound in old Germanic heroism, that they revel in the 
dim past, stone axes, spear and shield, but that in natura 
they are the greatest cowards imaginable. For the same 
people who wave about old Germanic tin swords carefully 
imitated, and wear a prepared bearskin with bull's horns 
covering their bearded heads always preach for the 
present only the fight with spiritual weapons and flee 
quickly in sight of every communist blackjack. 

Posterity will have little cause for glorifying their heroic 
existence in a new epic. 

I got to know these people too well not to feel the deepest 
disgust at this miserable comedy. They make a ridiculous 
impression on the great masses, and the Jew has every 
reason to spare these folk comedians, even to prefer them 



500 MEIN KAMPF 

to the true fighters for the coming German State. Thereby 
these people are even immeasurably conceited, despite all 
proofs of their complete inability they pretend to under- 
stand and to know everything better, and they become a 
real plague for all straightforward and honest fighters, to 
whom heroism appears not only venerable in the past, but 
who also endeavor to give posterity the same picture by 
their activity in the present. 

Thereby many a time it is difficult to distinguish which 
of these people act in this way out of inner stupidity or 
inability, or which only pretend to do so for deliberate 
reasons. Especially in regard to the so-called religious re- 
formers of the old Germanic type, I always have the feeling 
that they are sent by those powers which do not want the 
resurrection of our people. For their entire activity leads 



Since 1933, these 'religions' have basked in the sunlight of 
official favor. The most important have been: the German 
Faith Movement, which during the summer of 1933 was for- 
mulated by delegates assembled at Eisenach. Status as a 
separate religious confession was demanded. Its leading theo- 
rists have been Dr. Wilhelm Hauer, who holds that the Indo- 
Germanic religion (mother of all religions) awaits resurrection 
in modern Germany; and Dr. Ernst Bergmann, who believes 
that God has manifested Himself most completely in the Ger- 
man soul. This movement had for a time something like 
popularity, largely attributable to the influence of Dr. Hauer. 
The Tannenberg Bund, which was headed by General Luden- 
dorff until his death, is based upon the intuitions received from 
the 'German soul ' by his wife, Mathilda. The Hermann Wirth 
Society, which holds that the true religion of Nordic men was 
that of the lost continent of Atlantis and that modern faith 
must grow out of endeavors to reconstitute this faith, has come 
nearest to worshiping the ancient gods of Germany. In addi- 
tion, leaders of the S.S. and the Youth Organizations have in- 
stituted ritualistic exercises derived from a composite Germanic 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 501 

the people away from the common fight against the com- 
mon enemy, the Jew, in order to have it instead eat up its 
energy in internal religious struggles which are as absurd 
as they are unfortunate. But just for these reasons the 
establishment of a strong central power in the sense of the 
absolute authority of the leadership of the movement is 
necessary. By this alone can such destructive elements 
be shackled. For this reason also, however, the greatest 
enemies of a uniform and energetically led and guided 
movement are to be found in the circles of these folkish 
Ahasueruses. In the movement they hate the power that 
checks their mischief.^ 

Not in vain has the young movement determined on a 
definite program and thereby did not use the word 'folkish. 1 
The conception 'folkish/ in consequence of its boundless- 
ness, is not a possible foundation for movement and offers 
no measure for the membership of such a movement. The 
more practically undefinable this conception is, the more 
and freer interpretations it permits, the more increases 
also the possibility of having recourse to it. The insertion 
into the political fight of so undefinable a conception, inter- 
pretable in so many senses, leads to the diminution of 
every energetic fighting unity, as it is incompatible with 
this to leave to the individual the definition of his faith 
and his will. 

t For this reason it is a disgrace to see in these days those 
who drift about with the word ' folkish ' on their caps. And 



religion. Pagan ceremonies in honor of Christmas and Easter, 
old-German wedding ceremonies, and 'liturgical processions' 
are prevalent phenomena. The use of Hitler's picture on the 
altars of some churches is a kindred manifestation. Yet it is 
believed that all such things have failed to interest any large 
number of people and that the effect on youth has been nega- 
tivistic. 



502 MEIN KAMPF 

every one of these people has his own conception of this 
idea. A Bavarian professor by the name of Bauer, a famous 
fighter with spiritual weapons and equally rich in spiritual 
marching achievements carried out against Berlin, sees the 
conception folkish only presented in a monarchistic form. 
The learned head, however, has so far forgotten to explain 
more in detail the identity of our German monarchies of 
the past with a folkish conception of today. I further fear 
that this gentleman would hardly succeed in this. For one 
is hardly able to imagine anything that is less identical with 
the conception folkish than most of the German monarchis- 
tic State formations. If this were not the case, they would 
never have disappeared, or their disappearance would 
offer the proof of the incorrectness of the folkish concep- 
tion. 

Thus everybody plays about with this conception ac- 
cording to his understanding. But such a Babel of opin- 
ions cannot serve as the basis of a political fighting move- 
ment. 

Thereby I will completely leave out of account the seclu- 
sion from the world and the ignorance of the people's soul 

The current edition omits the name of 'Professor Bauer.' 
So far as we have been able to determine, two men by this name 
would have qualified as spokesmen for the monarchist cause. 
During 1921, the movement to restore the Wittelsbachs was 
at its height in Bavaria, and it is usually stated that nothing 
was done because of Allied intimations that the attempt would 
meet with opposition. During this period, Hitler had a great 
deal of trouble with ' professors/ many of whom were teachers 
in secondary schools. Thus a Dr. Dickel, of Augsburg, waa 
Streicher's candidate for Flihrer in 1920, and spoke at the Party 
meeting held on July 21 of that year. He had organized a 
'nationalistic labor union' something on which Hitler 
frowned and had conducted himself rebelliously in other 
ways. 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 503 

on the part of these folkish Johns of the twentieth century. 

This is sufficiently illustrated by the absurdity with 
which they are treated by the left. One lets them talk and 
laughs at them. 

But a man who in this world does not succeed in being 
hated by his adversaries, seems to me of little value as a 
friend. Therefore, the friendship of these people was not 
only of no value for our young movement, but even harm- 
ful. This was also the main reason why we first chose the 
name 'party.' We had reason to hope that through this 
alone quite a swarm of these folkish sleepwalkers would be 
scared away. And secondly we called ourselves 'National 
Socialist German Workers' Party. 9 

The first expression kept away from us the revelers in 
antiquity, the word -makers and outward talk-threshers of 
the so-called 'folkish idea/ but the second freed us from the 
entire host of knights of the 'spiritual' sword, and from all 
those miserable rags who hold up the 'spiritual weapon* 
as a shield for their actual cowardice. 

It is self-evident that in the following time we were at- 
tacked most seriously above all by the latter, of course not 
physically, but with the help of the pen, as cannot be ex- 
pected otherwise from such a folkish goosequill. For them, 
of course, our principle, ' those who attack us with force we 
will ward off with force,' had something terrifying. They 
not only reproached us for the brutal worship of the black- 
jack, but also for the lack of spirit in itself. But it makes 
no impression whatsoever on such a quack that in a peoples' 
assembly a Demosthenes can be silenced if only fifty idiots, 
supported by their talk and their fists, won't let him speak. 
Their inborn cowardice, of course, never lets them fall into 
such danger. For they do not work 'noisily' and 'ob- 
trusively,' but always in 'silence. 1 &lt; 

Even today I cannot warn our young movement enough 
against falling into the net of these so-called ' silent workers. 1 



504 MEIN KAMPF 

For they are not only cowards, but also incompetents and 
sluggards. A man who knows a thing, who realizes a given 
danger, and who sees with his eyes the possibility of a 
remedy, has the damned duty and obligation to work, not 
in 'silence/ but to stand up publicly against the evil and 
for its remedy. If he does not do so, then he is a disloyal, 
miserable weakling who fails either because of cowardice 
or because of laziness and inability. However, this is 
mostly not at all the case with these people, because they 
know nothing at all, but they act as though they knew God 
knows what; they are absolutely inefficient, but they try 
to cheat the whole world with their tricks; they are lazy, 
but with their pretended 'silent' work they create the 
appearance of an enormous and equally laborious activity; 
in short, they are cheats, characters of political profiteering, 
who hate the honest work of others. Just as such a folkish 
moth always appeals to the darkness of the silence, one 
can bet a thousand to one that under its cover he does not 
produce, but only steals steals from the fruits of the 
labor of others. 

But to this is always added the arrogance and conceited 
impudence with which this practically idling mob, shunning 
the light, throws itself upon the work of others and tries 
to criticize it from above, thus in reality aiding the mortal 
enemies of our nationality. 

Every last agitator who, standing among his adversaries 
upon the table of a tavern, has the courage manfully and 
openly to represent his opinion, achieves more than a 
thousand of these mendacious, treacherous sneaks. He 
will certainly convert the one or the other and win him 
over for the movement. One will examine his achievements, 
and one will be able to determine the effects of his activity 
by his success. Only the cowardly cheats, who praise their 
work in the 'silence' and wrap themselves in the protective 
cloak of a disdainful anonymity, are no good at all and may 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 505 

be looked upon, in the truest meaning of the word, as the 
drones in the rise of our people. 



At the beginning of 1920 I urged holding the first very 
great mass meeting. There were many differences of opin- 
ion about this. Some of the leading party members con- 
sidered the matter as much too premature and therefore 
looked upon the effect as disastrous. The red press had 
begun to occupy itself with us, and we were happy enough 
gradually to gain its hatred. We had begun to appear as 
discussion speakers in other meetings. Of course, each of 
us was immediately shouted down. Nevertheless, we were 
successful. One learned to know us, and in the measure in 
which this knowledge deepened, the aversion and the 
wrath against us grew. Therefore, we had reason to hope 
that at our first great mass meeting we would receive the 
visit of our friends from the red camp to a great extent. 

I, too, was clear about the fact that there was a great 
possibility that the meeting would be blown up. But the 
struggle had to be carried out, if not now, then a few 
months later. It was up to us to perpetuate the movement, 
even from the first day, by blindly and ruthlessly standing 
up for it. I knew above all the mentality of the adherents 
of the red side only too well not to know that a resistance to 
the limit not only makes an impression but also wins ad- 
herents. Therefore, one had to be resolved to make this 
resistance. 

The first chairman of the party at that time, Herr Harrer, 

These are parting words directed at Drexler and other truc- 
ulent members of the aboriginal group. Dissension was rife at 
the time Mein Kampf was written, and the journals of the 
folkish groups were filled with acrid remarks, pro and contra, 
on the subject of Nazidom. 



506 MEIN KAMPF 

believed that he could not agree with me upon the time 
chosen, and in consequence, as the honest, straightforward 
man he was, he withdrew from the leadership of the move- 
ment. His place was taken by Herr Anton Drexler. I had 
reserved for myself the organization of the propaganda, and 
now I carried it out ruthlessly. 

Thus the 24 of February, 1920, was fixed as the date for 
holding this first great peoples' meeting of the still unknown 
movement, 

I personally led the preparations. They were very brief. 
On the whole the entire apparatus was directed at being 
able to make rapid decisions. Its aim was to enable us 
by mass meetings to define our attitude towards current 
problems within twenty-four hours. The announcement of 
the latter was to be carried out by posters and leaflets the 
tendency of which was determined by those points of view 
which I have roughly outlined in my discussion on propa- 
ganda. Influence on the great masses, concentration on few 
points, continuous repetition of the latter, self-assured and 
confident wording of the texts in the form of apodictic 
assertion, greatest persistency in spreading, and patience 
in awaiting the effect. 

Red was chosen on principle as the color; it is the most 

This meeting, held at a time when the Party was still known 
as the Deutsche Arbriterpartei, presented the twenty-five points 
that later on attained fame as the program of the N.S.G.W.P. 
What Hitler conceals is that the leading orator of the occasion 
was a Dr. Dingfelder, then a speaker much in demand at 
nationalist organizations. He is worth following through the 
Rightist journals of the period. Newspaper accounts of the 
meeting assign a modest rdle to Hitler. He did, however, 
present the program. 

The first flag a black swastika in a white circle oa red 
background was slightly different in form from the flag now 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 507 

inciting color and was to annoy and to irritate our enemies 
and to make us known to them and to bring us into their 
memory in one way or the other. 

In the following time the inner fraternization between 
Marxism and the Center as a party showed most clearly in 
Bavaria also by the care with which the Bavarian People's 
Party, ruling there, tried to weaken and later to destroy 
the effect of our posters upon the red workers' masses. If 
the police did not find any other means to proceed against 
this, 'considerations of traffic' had to lend themselves, till 
finally for the sake of the inner, silent red ally, with the 
promoting help of a so-called German National People's 
Party, one entirely suppressed these posters which had given 
back hundreds of thousands of international, goaded, and 
seduced workers to the German nationality. As a model 
for our young movement I add a number of these appeals 
in an appendix. They embrace a period of nearly three 
years; they are best able to prove the enormous struggle 
which the young movement fought out in those days. But 
they are also to give testimony to posterity of the will and 
the honesty of our convictions, and the despotism of the 
so-called national authorities in suppressing a nationaliza- 
tion amazing to them, and thus a regaining of the greater 
masses of our people. 

They may also help to destroy the opinion that there 
existed in Bavaria a national government in itself, and to 
document for posterity the fact that the national Bavaria 
of the years 1919, 1920, 1921, 1922, and 1923 was not 
perhaps the result of a national government, but that the 

in use. Something similar appears to have been used by the 
Ehrhardt Brigade, comprised of soldiers who had fought in 
the Baltic States. Later on other 'banners' were added, strik- 
ingly akin in form to those carried in Southern German religious 
processions. 



508 MEIN KAMPF 

latter was forced to take consideration of a people which 
slowly began to feel in national terms. 

The governments themselves did everything towards 
suppressing this process of recovery and to make it im- 
possible. 

One single exception has to be made. 

At that time the President of the Police, Ernst Poehner, 
with his faithful councillor, High Bailiff Frick at his side, 
was the only higher State official who even then had the 
courage to be first a German and then an official. He was 
the only one who did not curry favor with the masses, but 
who rather felt responsible for his nationality and who was 
ready to stake and to sacrifice everything, even, if neces- 
sary, his own existence, for the resurrection of the German 
people, which he loved more than anything else. For this 



The suppression of the Munich 'Soviet government* had 
been accomplished with the help of a citizens' 'guard* recruited 
in large measure from the country districts of Bavaria. Yet 
this did not yearn for military prowess with elemental zeal. 
In common with all other Bavarians, its members preferred to 
live in peace and criticize whatever government happened to 
be in power. They were cajoled by the Reichswchr (regular 
army) into overthrowing the Socialist government, which had 
been established in Bamberg, and into legalizing a quasi- 
dictatorship headed by Gustav von Kahr. Herr von Kahr 
was a monarchist, but also a very cautious, slow-moving, and 
confused little man. Beyond giving the dead King Ludwig a 
beautiful funeral in Munich and dreaming that Bavaria was 
the center of the restoration, he did little except worry the 
Berlin officials and keep a protecting hand over Rightist plotters 
on whom they were eager to lay hands. Ernst Poehner, the 
Bavarian chief of police, was a stout and uncomprising patriot 
of the old school. Believing that Germany must rearm and 
turn the tables on France, he extended a cordial reception to 
all the secret military organizations and their leaders. True 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 509 

reason he was always the irritating thorn in the flesh of 
those venal creatures of officials, whose rules of conduct 
are not dictated by the interest of the people and its neces- 
sary rise to freedom, but rather by the order of their 
superiors, without consideration for the welfare of the 
national goods entrusted to them. 

And above all he belonged to those natures who, in con- 
trast to most of the guardians of our so-called State author- 
ity, do not fear the hostility of our people's and country's 
traitors, but who long for this as the natural property of 
every decent man. The hatred of the Jews and Marxists, 
their entire campaign of lie and calumny, were for him the 
sole happiness in the midst of the misery of our people. 

A man of granite honesty, of antique simplicity and of 
German straightforwardness, with whom the words 'rather 
dead than slave* were not a phrase, but the essence of his 
entire nature. 

He and his co-operator, Doktor Frick, are in my eyes the 
only people among the State authorities who have the right 
to be looked upon as the co-restorers of a national Bavaria. 



to form, he would assist Hitler's putsch in 1923. Dr. Wilhelm 
Frick was an official in the Munich police department, and also 
participated in the putsch of 1923. During 1930 he became 
Minister of Thuringia, and there arranged the appointment on 
the basis of which German citizenship was accorded to Hitler. 
Appointed Reich Minister of the Interior in 1933, he has usually 
been voted the 'most honest man* in Nazi administration. 
His bluntness of speech is famous. Replying to a criticism that 
his violent attacks on Marxism were based on ignorance he 
replied : ' I don't need to know anything about Marxism I 
know some Marxists.' 

This maxim is the regional device of Schleswig-Holstein, 
and is said to have originated in the War during which this 
province was won for Prussia. 



510 MEIN KAMPF 

Before we proceeded to hold this first mass meeting, not 
only the necessary propaganda material had to be prepared, 
but also the leading articles of the program had to be put 
down in print. 

In the second volume I will more thoroughly develop the 
directions which we had in mind, while composing the 
program. Here I only wish to state that it was created 
not only in order to give the young movement form and 
content, but in order to make its aims comprehensible to 
the great masses. 

In the circles of the so-called intelligentsia one has joked 
and jeered at it and tried to criticize it. But the correct- 
ness of our conception of that time has been proved by the 
effectiveness of this program. 

During these years I saw dozens of new movements 
originate, and they all have disappeared and blown away 
again without leaving a trace. Only one of those of these 
years remained: the National Socialist German Workers' 
Party. And today more than ever I harbor the conviction 
that one can fight it, that one may try to paralyze it, that 
small party ministers can take from us the speech and the 
word, but they will never more prevent the victory of our 
ideas. 

If even memory will not mention the names of the entire 
present conception of State and their representatives, the 
foundations of the National Socialist program will be 
the foundations of a coming State. 

The four months' activity of meeting, previous to Janu- 
ary, 1920, had gradually permitted us to collect the small 
funds which we required for printing our first leaflet, our 
first poster, and our program. 

If I take the first great mass meeting of the movement 
as the conclusion of this volume, it is done for the reason 
that with it the party broke the narrow frame of a small 
dub and instead influenced decisively, for the first time, 
the most powerful factor of our time, public opinion 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. Ill 

I myself had at that time only one anxiety: Will the 
hall be filled, or will we have to speak to an empty hall? I 
had the unshakable inner conviction that, if the people 
would come, the day was bound to become a great success 
for the young movement. Thus I anxiously looked forward 
to that evening. 

At 7.30 the opening was to take place. At 7.15 I entered 
the banquet hall of the Hofbrauhaus at the Platzl in 
Munich, and my heart nearly burst with joy. The enormous 
room, for then it appeared to me like that, was overfilled 
with people, shoulder to shoulder, a mass numbering almost 
two thousand. And above all those people had come to 
whom we wished to appeal. Far more than half of the hall 
seemed to be taken by communists and independents. They 



The creation of an armed guard the function of which was 
to throw out of meetings any persons who ventured to heckle 
or question the speaker had some precedent in Communist 
practice of the time, but was on the whole original. It may also 
go back to secret military organization meetings, which had 
always to be on their guard against possible informants. At 
first the groups were small, being recruited from ex-soldiers, 
many of whom were then idle. By 1920 they had grown suffi- 
ciently numerous to permit organization in companies or 
'hundreds. 1 The S.A. (Sturm Abteilung Storm Section) was 
founded on August 3, 1921, on the basis of a proclamation 
which declared that the Party had decided to create its own 
gymnastic and sport organization; that this was to exemplify 
'the preparedness idea for the German people as a whole/ 
and to afford 'protection for the work of enlightenment to be 
done by the leaders 1 ; and that it was to preserve the ideals 
of loyalty and obedience. This proclamation was signed by 
Lieutenant Johann Klintsch, who had fled to Bavaria after 
being suspected of complicity in the murder of Rathenau. 

In the background, however, there was that remarkable 
officer and political leader, Captain Ernst Roehm, who had 



512 MEIN KAMPF 

had decided our first great demonstration was to come to a 
rapid end. 

But things took a different course. After the first speaker 
had finished, I took up the word. A few minutes later inter- 
rupting shouts came down like showers of hail, violent 
clashes occurred in the hall, and a handful of the most faith- 
ful war comrades and other adherents were struggling with 
the disturbers and only by and by were they able to restore 
peace. I was able to continue. After half an hour applause 
gradually began to drown out the shouting and calling. 

And now I took up the program and began to interpret 
it for the first time. 

From one quarter of an hour to the next the interrupting 
shouts were more and more subdued by increasing encourag- 
ing shouts. And when finally I presented, point by point, 



undoubtedly been the real power behind the throne in the 
move which ended Bavaria's Socialist government and brought 
von Kahr to the fore. Ruthless, battle-scarred, and later 
addicted to homosexual practices, Roehm was a first-class 
organizer and a man who believed earnestly in social reform. 
He had friends in all walks of life, and (if one discounts the 
wish to fight the War all over again) took an interest even in 
international good will. Roehm, sensing Hitler's political 
ability, thought that by combining rearmament with the Nazi 
Party, he could soon create some kind of German army. Ac- 
cordingly he induced members of secret military organizations 
prescribed by the Reich to join the S.A. in Munich, and often 
even persuaded them to take some interest in drill and dis- 
cipline. But Roehm was fighting a hopeless fight. On the one 
.hand were the Reichswehr leaders, who very soon decided they 
wanted no such loose volunteer organization as Roehm was 
proposing; and on the other side there was Hitler, who (aware 
of the army's feeling) took no interest in the idea of appending 
his party to a sort of levie en masse. During 1922, Roehm and 
other army officers seriously contemplated a march on Berlin: 



DEVELOPMENT OF THE N.S.G.W.P. 513 

the twenty-five points to the masses and asked them per* 
sonally to pronounce judgment upon them, one after the 
other was accepted with more and more joy, again and again 
unanimously, and as thus the last thesis had found its way 
to the heart of the mass, 1 was confronted by a hall filled 
with people united by a new conviction, a new faith, a new 
will. 

When after almost four hours the hall began to empty and 
the crowd, shoulder to shoulder, like a slow stream, began 
to push, to scramble, and to pour towards the exit, then I 
knew that now the principles of a movement which never 
could be forgotten walked out into the German people. 

A fire had been lighted, and out of its flames there was 
bound to come some day the sword which was to regain 

but largely owing to lack of co-ordination, the plan failed. It 
may be that some early groups of S.A. were Wack shirts. But 
the black-clad S.S. (Schutzstaffel Protection Unit) was not 
officially organized until December, 1924, when it was assigned 
the duty of being responsible to the Ftihrer and charged with 
his safety. 

In 1925 Hitler definitely broke with Roehm. The breach also 
involved Captain Brtickner, one of the ablest co-workers in the 
development and training of the S.A. Roehm went to South 
America, returned later, and took over the S.A. again in 1930. 
At about the same time, Briickner became Hitler's personal 
adjutant. What eventually happened to Roehm will be consid- 
ered later on. During the Party controversies attendant upon 
the Munich Crisis of 1938, Briickner mysteriously disappeared. 

Hitler's success in this task is extraordinary. The Treaty of 
Versailles limited the German army to 100,000 men, carefully 
circumscribed the production of armament materials and de- 
militarized the Rhineland. Today Germany has universal mili- 
tary service, its armament production constitutes at least 
65 per cent of the total economic enterprise of the nation, its 
air fleet is presumed to be the most powerful in the world, it 



514 MEIN KAMPF 

the freedom of the Germanic Siegfried and the life of the 
German nation. 

And side by side with the coming rise, I sensed that there 
walked the goddess of inexorable revenge for the perjured 
act of the 9 of November, 1918. 

Thus the hall became slowly empty. 

The movement took its course. 

has reoccupied and refortified the Rhineland, and under a 
special treaty its navy is entitled to build to 35 per cent of the 
strength of the British Navy. In addition this new German 
army has tested the value of its several arms on Spanish battle- 
fields, and has carried out two campaigns of occupation. 

Immediately after the Machtergreifung^ efforts were made to 
give Germany dominance in the air. Special collections were 
taken up to finance the construction of planes and the organ- 
ization of defense. Bomb-proof cellars were built in great num- 
bers as early as 1934, and air-raid drills became a normal aspect 
of German life. During 1937, the attics of all houses in the 
Rhineland were ordered cleared, to lessen the peril of fire. It 
was reported that special apparatus for engendering electro- 
magnetic waves had been installed, in the belief that such 
waves would destroy war-planes. 

The actual strength of Germany's air-raid squadron remains 
a matter for conjecture. In addition the effectiveness of anti- 
aircraft artillery is so much higher now than it was in 1918 that 
some authorities refuse to believe that a bombardment would 
be as ruinous to a city as is sometimes estimated by popular 
writers on the subject. Yet even so the air is the great unknown 
of modern warfare, and as such helps to mitigate enthusiasm for 
armed conflict. 



APPENDIX 



APPENDIX 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

In untiring agitation, the agents of the Jewish-international 
stock exchange and loan capital are trying to make Germany 
ripe for collapse, so that they may pass over State and economy 
into the hands of the 

International Finance Trusts 

The presumption for this is the laceration and, with it, the 
weakening of our people in the interior. Hence also the embittered 
fight of the 

MERCENARIES 

of international high finance against a party which, in distinction 
to all the other parties, is not composed of 

'BOURGEOIS 9 or 'PROLETARIANS' 

but of the creative mental and manual workers of our people. 
They alone can and will be the supporters of the future Germany. 

Fellow Citizens! 

Friday, November 19, 1920, in the Hofbrduhausfestsaal (Platol) 
there will take place a great public MASS MEETING, 

'THE WORKER IN THE GERMANY 

OF THE FUTURE 9 
Speaker: Herr Adolf Hitler 



518 APPENDIX 

in which the National Socialist Party will define its attitude to 
this question. 

We ask all Germans to come. 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. 

Admission M.I.- War invalids free. Jews not admitted. 

Summoner: For the party management, 

A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 2000 persons. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Already for two years, the famous 

RECOVERY 

has lasted, the increase of the buying power of money, the con- 
solidation of economy, the awakening of the world conscience, 
the subjugating of militarism, etc., and there are parties which 
have the cheek to assure the people that this condition in which 
we live today represents happiness for our people and for the 
human 

'CIVILIZATION 9 
in general. 

In all their programs, promises follow promises of an economic 
prosperity to be attained only in the 

FREE STATE 

of curing all other evils of our present society, and while in reality 
the misery becomes and is bound to become greater from month 
to month, there are actually millions of people who still believe 
in this paradise. 

For: as long as the peace treaty of Versailles weighs on the 
German people, every promise of an economic recovery is fraud- 



APPENDIX 519 

The National Socialist Party has not only recognized this from 
the beginning, but is the only political party that sees to it that 
our people, with ruthless frankness, becomes acquainted with 
the treaties which have been palmed off on it as a peace of recon- 
ciliation and understanding. 

Wednesday, November 24, 1920, therefore, there will take 
place at the Hofbrauhausfestsaal another MASS MEETING 
in which Herr Adolf Hitler will speak about: 

4 VERSAILLES, GERMANY'S DESTRUCTION' 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. Jews not admitted. 

Admission M.I.- War invalids free 
Summoner: For the party management, A. Drexler 

The meeting was attended by 2120 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

With diabolic cunning 

for two years, the representatives of the Principle of Freedom of 
the small nations, of world disarmament, of the League of Na- 
tions and of World Peace knew how to make our people deaf and 
blind with all kinds of phrases. 
A two years 1 

swindle of honesty 

and of peace hypocrisy had to make our people ripe and pliable 
for the things now awaiting us. 

Who still believes that England was ever concerned with re- 
specting the freedom of the small nations, since it takes from one 
of the greatest civilized nations of this world that was and 
Germany even today its last remainder of freedom? 

Who still believes today that France ever fought German mili- 
tarism, only in order to make Germany free and to secure to the 
rest of the world the fortune of the general disarmament of alt 
nations? 



portei 



Afcmft*tt 



fatal c&lt; We &gt;6erf refer bef PfiHllpff dCf ffrei&amp;Cft dCT fletaen 93tf0nen* dff 
to SWferbliUbe* an* J&amp;tltfrttbaU, wrfUben, unfer 2otr bur* |id 3afrrt 
&lt;j0en nrfgltyen Pftrafen faub unb blinb 50 nuufeen. Oin jtpetjd&amp;rifltr 

e**itbel *. ttlefcectett 

nnb 3friebentf$eu4e!efen mufte unfer Self erft reif nub mQrbe maa)en ju ten, tutu* 



. 

2Ber gfaabt Je^t no^ baran, bo c* Onglanb JtmaW borara to fun toar. Me 3frd(di bcr 
flrfnen ^aflonen ju otfifrn, ba erf cinem bcr ^r^fien 5utforo!fcr bfcfer 3Dt(( to UHT 
9ettlfl&amp;Umd nnb baf iff Cf attd betliC IW0, ben Irtftn Tlcfl ton 5rtU?cit rauW? 

2Ber glaubi aud? heute noc^, bog 3rranrref^ ben beutf^eti XiUlarifmui je beMm^fie, nr 
um 2)euff(^l(inb frei ju moc^tn unb ber Qbrigen Cfrbe ba&lt; (Slfitf ber ongeraemen Jffbrflflund 
flfler ^ationtn ju fidjrrn? 

Bar ertetutt no* nU6&lt;, baft Jronfrei* and enaJanb wtf fa erf tteftrfaf nsaiftcii mttttea, 
mn nitf f e raWlM ma$en ia f otuieti, 61M ww 9erfiOe nw nor amtmebmett, fmbcm 
kite 0* W Wtcnttibncn ? Unb trer ifl enblicb ouch fteute no^ fo Hnblic^ twrmlo^, um 
Ritftt einiufeben, baf biefet Cnglanb, ba^ in plonmdfiger Xeiifeiei in etrigen ^cpoluH^nen 
3rlanM 33o(f gum Xobefcetf unb in faura 803aftrcn pr Wlfte aurfgerotiei^al, batf 3nbien 
ebenfan^ ai&lt;* oltrn STuKurftaot, ber, tei$ ott ni*t miHtdrlf* tror, unb bie ^reibeiien ber 
fldnen ^ationen bebro^e^ aurfaaunerf unb autyrefr; baf bieferf Sranfrei* etibli^ tat km 
Tfomen ber jtultur gunberttaufrnbe ton fd^vorgen 5Tfrifanern ouf bie europ&amp;ften ^(od^tfelber 
fdjleiffe unb fie fyeufe nod) alrf Wringer einer l&gt;6f)eren Bicllifotion ber rbelntfdben JTultur oW 
j^enfer^fne(f&gt;fe oufjrofncit; &amp;&gt;er iff aud&gt; Jrtf nod&gt; fo trxi^nftnnig ja glauben. bap on 6fla9a* 
(attero anberw iu enoartni ri, ali 6fUiterei? 

tob ewb forbrrn tpir irtjt oof. 2kr 6flae fein ttHB f der toarde t* tmb KfUw M 
abr ttiftt Obtr not and (flcnb. 9er lebrn toitt, bet fumme wtdmrofeWere daaetcm &lt;3 
nun on* die JBdolWrtett ttitit iebcn roabt. 

2Benn 60 IHifUpnen, OTonn unb IDeib, torn (Strife bltf gum ^un^en, fn einmfltiger &lt;JnV 
frf)IofTtnf&gt;eil erfldren, loir t(Ien nirf&gt;l, bann folf brr 2Bifle biefer IHinionen un* gum mtnbef 
einN fi^ern, bie 34tun&amp; bie roan bera oenvciaert, ber bie Peiifte hl^ bie ifri 



tvtr find 3Rettfcften tin5 feme 

r fMai ao doer BckNrc^^ 
fc* e* btetmal fein 3tr(Hmbd eftf, fonbtm daft 

2Ber ber^anbelf, fturgi. 



bie UrrgetiHilflgnng einer $uiibcr$$ri0eii Bofnnfl nnferrt ^f4M in to 




,_, ofle dtifiui(fn4fo6 onv* ttnb jToWafpener, Vrbeiier vno Gnibcnftn* 33eanife irafr 

WngefWJte. aOe, benen enbfltf? tia) bit Oberjeuauna aufaeMremert iff, bof nn4 auf Wefer 

2Ddf fdii Xeufd ^Iff, meira trlr nn&lt; nJJTfelber ^ftn, 

tta*fM4e f^bd Heine (tott. 3nr **tfuna ra aak unb JMatofunfoflen mi. CHnMM. 
t 8 i^r abenb*. Onbe 10 U^r 15 3Mnaien. Arlea^beMabiaie fret 

[ tar Mrttt wferraat afntentfer: 3fttr Me parWWhina tt. Defter. 



JDU SJerfammhmf IPOT cM MM 0*r 5600 J&amp;erfonea. 

[ Facsimile ] 



flotionalfojiialiltififr gerififr art* ifcr.partri 

ft tanae iwr m* ACfttittt teftaffen ttwde. 

fluf Mefe neuerffge tmtrftdrte OrpreJTung Me etnjlg ri^tige ntoor1 )u geben, ndmll^ 
ben bar(^ Me &lt;fntente obermaftf oerlt^ien fogenannten 



fc fftr 9erfV4Um Permit maftltfe * erfUren, M e^ulbbt icnntn.x om ftrle? anfer ^w 
ber ttMrfUftttl S&gt;0Tnmatfe foforl ^ffentfl^ 30 aifrmifcn un&amp; t)ie ^nberauraong efner 
i Jriefcwdhmfermj, fufenb of btn uni fetnerjfit Q\4 runbla^e nerfpro^enen 14 pontten 
OBIIfon&lt;, |B forbera, tat Me beutf^e ^rgifmng etnen 



Or Ifl un4 Je^t frcfonni 



ta* flnt&gt; ubtr 

1500 TDiaiarfren patfermarf 

Me taiMe ettNreaicrmi0 fern fteoner frar^ 5a deaife 9ff 



tifitt 



tfber tw&lt; tlr nle ftejtodfdt ^o^en. If! nun dn^drden. 
ZMefen IniertwHwwIen 95rfen^deni ^enfi^t &lt;ud? batf ntd^L 
2Jki fie ttoflen. Iff OentfcfcUmbtf ofifldnM9e Ucrfncoun^. 
Unb trofcbcm fofl ber Stu^nbd nnn Better fodgefdjt merbtnT 
9oge0en proteftieren toir! 

ftonmit (elite 6onnfa, ten &amp;JRfiri 1921, 10 OJr borat 

in ben 




mb 9crf ortdter mfercf 3oflt$, m3lr 
eftftttef SK erdttldoi. Aonnnt md DtolefHeff dMeoev* 



M ftrfeie Ira0e. ^rolefttart aeaen ben am Mm OetaHMMaen &lt;m Wdcw ftHetc, 



feftkrt tetea 5* neee Porifer Mtet t6 Mr^efHert *or enbti* on* men dne 
Me nenerMna* Me 



ber Itunbgebnng 10 U^r, Cfobe 12 ttfc 
2DL i. JWe0&lt;btfd^4btgte frtU 3v^cn (wen lefnen BnlrffL 

flenc anb 25er^tolb, 3lgantii9er&lt;W &amp;l 54 

dtebernfer: Jflr bk paritUdtinift tTnion Drejler. 

Serfammlung toot Don fiber 8000 ^njoncn befu$t 
[Facsimile] 



S22 APPENDIX 

Who does not yet recognize that France and England had to 
first make us so defenseless in order to be able to make us outlaws 
to such an extent that we not only accepted but even signed Spa 
and Versailles? And who, finally, is even today still so childish 
and innocent as not to see that this England which with methodical 
diabolism hunts Ireland's people to death in eternal revolutions 
and has extirpated half of it in less than 80 years, which cheats 
and exploits India, the old culture State, which, God knows, was 
certainly not militaristic, and threatened the freedom of the 
small nations; that this France finally, which in the name of cul- 
ture dragged hundreds of thousands of black Africans to the 
European battle fields and even today forces them, as the bearers 
of a higher civilization, on the Rhenish culture as henchmen ; who 
is even today so crazy as to believe, that from slave drivers any- 
thing but slavery can be expected? 

And now we invite you. He who wants to be a slave may be- 
come one, but then he must not complain about misery and dis- 
tress. He who wants to live may come and protest against the 
fact that they rob us of the possibility of living. 

If sixty millions, men and women, from the oldest man down 
to the young boy, declare in unanimous resolution, we do not 
want to, then the will of the millions ought to secure us at least 
one thing, the respect which is denied him who kisses the whip 
that beats him. 

We, too, are human beings and not dogs 

But sixty millions should make it clear to a Reich government 
that this time there is no place for negotiations, but that he who 
negotiates, falls. 

Fellow citizens! Come all of you today, Thursday, February 3, 
1921, at 8 p.m. to the Z IRK US KRONE to the 

GIANT MANIFESTATION OF PROTEST 

against the rape of a hundred years' future of our people. Herr 
Adolf Hitler will speak about: 

'FUTURE OR DECLINE 9 



APPENDIX 513 

Come without exception, manual and white collar workers, la- 
borers and students, officials and employees, all on whom finally 
the conviction had dawned that in this world no devil will help 
us unless we help ourselves. 

No discussion To cover the cost of the hall and the 

Beginning 8 p.m. posters, admission: M.I.- 

War invalids free 

End 10.15 P- m - Summoner: For the party management: 

No Jews admitted A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 5600 persons. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Of all the promises of the leaders of the November Revolution, 
nothing has arrived. 

Misery and distress, hunger and disease 
weigh more heavily than ever on our people. 

Profiteers and usurers, currency speculators and war-profiteers 
however, feast on the profits they made by usury before the eyes 
of the nation that has fallen into distress. Meanwhile an un- 
heard-of treaty awaits its fulfillment which once they had the 
cheek to palm off on us as 

'Peace Treaty* of Reconciliation and Understanding 
A 42 years' exploitation 

is to destroy Germany's future, to make our people die off. There 
we ask: How is it possible that our people bears all this? What is 
the ultimate cause of this unheard-of weakness which makes 
Germany today the defenseless victim of its exploiters? 

// is the class struggle 

In terrible lunacy the Germans fight one another today, intel- 
lectuals against laborers, class against class, and they weaken ont 



524 APPENDIX 

another until they both, in powerlessness and weakness, fall 
victim to the enemies of our people bent on plunder and eager in 
rapacity. 

GERMAN STUDENTS! 

Do you want to watch this doom inactively? Remember that 
for centuries of German history the German student, fighting for 
freedom and national right, stood by the side of his people. 
Think of it that it was he who many a time became the bearer 
and fighter for all the moral ideas which lifted our people out of 
misery and shame. Can there be a greater task for our people 
today than the solution of the fateful question of Germany, the 
class question ! 

We ask you: During the deepest misery of our people, do you 
want to linger in indifferent lethargy, do you want to barricade 
yourselves behind the class-spirit, or do you find the way to your 
people! 

FRIDAY, February 1 1 , 192 1 , a great public MASS MEETING 
takes place at the Hofbrauhausfcstsaal (Platxl). 

Herr Adolf HITLER will speak about: 
'GERMAN YOUTH GERMAN FUTURE 9 

Now we invite you, German students, who have still a heart 
for the present suffering of your people, come, listen and join 
where you belong: 

WITH THE PEOPLE 

Beginning of the meeting: 8 p.m. Jews not admitted 

Admission: M.I.- Students: 50 Pf. War invalids free 

Summoner: For the party management: A. Drexler 

The meeting was attended by more than 2200 persons. 



APPENDIX 525 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

One year has passed, since our movement announced itself for 
the first time to the GREAT PUBLIC. 

On February 24, 1920, before an audience counting thousands, 
the program of the young movement was published and accepted 
with violent applause. 

In a grand sweep, the 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST IDEA 

has taken root in numerous places. 

First mocked, ridiculed, then passed by in silence, we have the 
experience that today we are already persecuted most cruelly. 
That is what we want. 

A movement which has not learned to conquer by a 
fight is not worthy of a victory 

The ultimate victory in this world, however, will be carried by 
truth. And in this we believe. 

In numerous mass meetings we have tried to spread it without 
consideration for favor or hatred, never guided by reflections or s*- 
called 'tactics,' but always animated only by the feeling of duty. 

In memory of this anniversary we invite our 

FELLOW CITIZENS 

to come Thursday, February 24, 1921, to the great public 
PEOPLE'S MEETING at the Hofbrduhausfestsaal (Platzl). 

Heir Adolf HITLER will speak about: 

'ONE YEAR OF GERMAN HISTORY AND 
OUR PROGRAM 9 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. Admission M.I.- 

No Jews admitted. War invalids free 

Summoner : For the party management: A. Drexler 



526 APPENDIX 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement ia the 
'VOELKISCHE BEOBACHTER' 
Office: M&amp;nchen, Thicrschstrasse 15 

The meeting was attended by more than 2300 persons. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS 1 PARTY 

At last we know why the German government's reply to the 
Paris Note has been kept secret from us for such a long time. 

Instead of giving to this renewed unheard-of extortion the only 
right answer, that is to declare herewith the so-called 

'Peace Treaty 9 of Versailles 

as invalid for Germany; to revoke immediately and publicly the 
confession of war guilt by presenting the genuine documents and 
to demand the calling of a new peace conference based on the 
14 points of Wilson which then were promised us as the basis, the 
German government has worked out a 

'Counter Proposal' 

This is now known to us. 
Around a hundred and forty-six billions of goldmarks 

that is more than 
1500 billions of paper marks 

the Reich's government promises the enemy to be paid by the 
German people. 

A COMPLETE LUNACY 

But what we have never doubted has now arrived. 
But this is not enough for these international stock exchange 
vultures. 



APPENDIX 527 

What they want is Germany's complete enslavement 
And yet this bargaining is to be continued? 

We protest against this! 

FELLOW CITIZENS! Come today, Sunday, March 6, 1921, 
10 a.m. to the 

Giant Demonstration of Protest 
at the Zirktis Krone 

A. HITLER will speak about: 
'LONDON AND US? 9 

White collar and manual workers of our people, you alone have 
to suffer the consequences of this unheard-of treaty. Come and 
protest against Germany being burdened with the war guilt. 
Protest against the peace treaty of Versailles which has been 
forced upon us by the sole culprit of the war, the Jewish inter- 
national stock exchange capital; protest against the latest dictate 
from Paris; and protest, finally, against a Reich's government 
which again gives the most colossal promises without asking the 
German people. 

Beginning of the meeting 10 a.m., end 12 noon. 
Admission M.I.- War invalids free No Jews admitted 

Advance sale: The office and Berchtold, Cigar Store, Tal 54 

Summoner: For the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 8000 persons. 



528 APPENDIX 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

While France, by breach of the Peace Treaty, occupies more and 
more territories, while Poland, freed of the bolshevistic danger, is 
about to annex Upper Silesia, despite all results of the plebiscite, 
a so-called German Reich government sees cause 

to destroy 

in the same moment the last remainder of our people's possibili- 
ties of resistance. 

It has learned nothing from Spa, Versailles, Paris, London. 
Now as before it trusts in phrases and assurances of 'world con- 
science,' 'culture solidarity/ and similar 'bunk. 1 

Thus for Poland the rape of Upper Silesia will become just as 
without danger as the occupation of the Ruhr district, thanks to 
our present Reich's government, is already for France. 

Against this we protest. 

Not against the disarmament of some kind of organization, but 
against making our people defenseless for the purpose of its en- 
slavement and delivery into the hands of the international stock 
exchange capital and its henchmen. 

German fellow citizens! He who does not want Germany to 
offer herself forever in doglike submissiveness to the international 
world capital as a colony, should come today, March 15, 1921, at 
8 p.m. to the Zirkus Krone to the 

GIANT DEMONSTRATION OF PROTEST 

Adolf Hitler will speak about: 

'STATESMEN OR NATIONAL 

CRIMINALS' 

End 10 p.m. Jews not admitted 

Admission M.I.- War invalids free 
Summoner: For the party management, A. Drexler 

The meeting was attended by more than 5000 persons. 



APPENDIX 529 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Germany's fate hurries towards its decision. Ignoring the plebi- 
scite, a Foreign Commission will decide in whose possession 

UPPER SILESIA 
is to remain. 

The Commission consists of adversaries of Germany 

Its decision is dictated by the flaming hatred against our people. 
International high finance raises its arm for the most serious blow 
against the freedom of our people and its independence, it robs our 
economy of its daily bread, coal. 

Upper Silesia is to be lost for Germany. 

And our people? 

It fights not against its oppressors, but against itself. 

4 For the revolutionary liberation of the proletariat you must be 
victorious, or die.' 

Thus the Jewish agents, paid by international stock exchange 
capital, fool our people, they drive it towards a fratricidal war, 
and instead of the ' revolutionary liberation ' they bring it the end 
of the sole freedom that exists, the freedom of its own nation. 

FELLOW CITIZENS! 

Friday, April 8, 1921, in the Hofbrauhausfesisaal (Platel) there 
will take place a great public MEETING. 

Herr Adolf Hitler will speak about: 
'GERMANY A WAKE' 

Beginning 8 p.m., Doors open at 7 p.m. No Jews admitted 

Admission for covering expenses of rent and bill posters M.I.- 

War invalids free. 
Summoner: For the party management, 

An ton Drexler 

The meeting was attended by more than 2000 persons. 



530 APPENDIX 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Working Germans! 

We want to recall to your memory only a few of the hundreds of 
slogans which your leaders and tempters, since 1917, have ham- 
mered into your brains unceasingly. 

'Reconciliation' 'Understanding 1 ' 14 points' 
4 World disarmament ' ' Liberation work peace bread * 
A 'life in dignity and beauty 1 etc. 

Whose heart is not rent when comparing these promises with the 
state in which Germany is actually today. 

Is it surprising, therefore, if one who was revolutionarily in- 
clined and who as early as November 1918 was ready for death 
on the barricades for his supposed ideas, if now in the most bitter 
disappointment he joins the ranks and the storm columns of that 
party which not only promises him the realization of his Novem- 
ber dream but even the 

4 Dictatorship of the Proletarian ' 

over the rest of his fellow citizens. 

Fed on slogans for decades, it makes no difference to him who 
offers them to him, whether an agitator who comes from his own 
ranks be it out of idealism or business mindedness or the 
Jewish millionaire with shining patent leather shoes and bedecked 
with diamonds who presents himself to him as also proletarian.' 

Lasalle's words that 

'A workers 9 movement has to keep itself free from 
Jews and capitalists ' 

is forgotten. 

On the contrary, he who leads it today is the Jew exclusively, 
and it is the stock exchange in whose service they stand. 

Today the thinking worker has to aee with horror that he has 



APPENDIX 531 

become the tool of those who have established as their final goal 
the government of the 'capitalist constitution/ the dictatorship 
of the exchanges and banks, the monopolization of the working 
forces, the smashing of the national economy in the interest of the 
stock exchange and the proletarization of the middle class. For 
this is the aim and the end of the World War and of the so-called 
world revolution. 

For not the 'proletarian* makes them but the Jewish interna- 
tional great capital makes the revolution against him with the 
proletarian. 

But the reply to this most unheard-of betrayal of the world and 
of the nation by the international powers can only be 

the resistance of the Organized, National Force 
We call you all to this resistance! 

Thursday, April 14, 1921, at the M&amp;nchncr Kindl Keller, at a 
great public MASS MEETING, Deputy Herr Rudolf Jung, Mem- 
ber of the National Assembly of Prague and 2nd Chairman of the 
German National Socialist Party in Czechoslovakia, will speak 
about 

'NATIONAL SOCIALISM AS NATIONAL 
REVOLUTION 1 

Beginning 8 p.m. Jews not admitted 

Admission to cover cost of hall and posters, M.I.- 

War invalids free 

Advance sale: Cigar store Berchtold, Tal 54, and at the Party 

office. 

Summoner: For the party management: 

Adolf Hitler 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the ' Voelkische Beobachter.' Office: MQnchen, 
Thierschstrasse 15 

The meeting was attended by more than 4800 persons. 



53S APPENDIX 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Today world Jewry presses without mercy on our people. One 
territory after the other is being occupied. 

EXTORTION follows EXTORTION 

The eternal peace has turned into an eternal war. 

If, instigated by the Jewish agents of stock exchange capital 
and the Entente, Germany continues to lacerate herself in the 
interior, then after a few years our people will be able to cele- 
brate instead fc of the International May festival its national memo- 
rial service. 

In the most critical hour of our people, in the moment when 
we, practically abandoned by all the world, made defenseless by 
our own fault, have to watch France setting out to occupy new 
territories, while African negroes rape our women and children, 
while in Upper Silesia bands of Polish murderers and arsonists 
slaughter German workers, we turn to those who alone will be 
able to redeem Germany from misery and misfortune. 

We turn to the German worker and the German youth! 

We invite you all, you who on the one hand begin to recognize 
the Jewish democratic swindle, and on the other hand the inter- 
national-socialist fraud, to come to the ranks of national soli- 
darity, to join the National Socialist movement of Greater 
Germany. 

TODAY Friday, May 6, 1921, TODAY 

a great public MASS MEETING takes place at the Hofbr&amp;uhaus- 
festsaal (Platzt) 

Speaker Herr Adolf Hitler 

'GERMAN WORKERS AND 
GERMAN YOUTir 



APPENDIX 533 

Beginning 8 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters, Admission M.I. - 
War invalids free 
Summoner: For the party management, 

A. D r e x 1 e r 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the ' Voelkische Bcobachtcr,' Mttnchen, 
Thierschstr. 15 

The meeting was attended by 2100 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Fellow citizens/ German workers/ 
Do you know the peace treaties? NO 

You do not know the peace treaty of Brest-Utovsk, because it 
has been kept from you deliberately, only in order to lie to you 
that Brest-Litovsk was the most disgraceful treaty of violation 
of all times. And when finally the Dictate of Versailles was 
presented to the German government for signature, there again 
one kept all knowledge and enlightenment from the people, for 
this time one had to make it believe that now it had the peace 
of reconciliation and understanding which one time 

SCHEIDEMANN 

was able to describe so marvelously. 

And even today, after almost 2 years, the German people is 
not enlightened about a treaty which primarily does not concern 
the fate of the so-called 

GREAT CAPITALISTS, 

but which ruins the existence of the working people* 

If of that flood of promises of November 1918 even today not 
only nothing has arrived, but the misery is greater than ever 



534 APPENDIX 

before, then it is for the reason that the peace treaty of Versailles 
prevents from the very beginning any economic recovery and 
socially just order in Germany. The cry for alteration of this 

MURDEROUS TREATY 

can be fulfilled only if the entire German people at least know it. 
Tuesday, May 31, 1921, a great public MEETING takes 
place at the Hofbrduhausfcstsaal (Platzl) 

Herr Adolf Hitler will speak about: 
' GERM AN WORKER and the PEACE TREATIES' 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. Jews not admitted. 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I.- 
War invalids free 

Summoner: For the party management, 

A. D r e x 1 e r 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the ' Vodkische Beobachtcr* Munchen, 
Thierschstr. 15 

The meeting was attended by more than 2000 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALISTS, MANUAL AND 
WHITE COLLAR WORKERS OF MUNICH! 

Like a giant spider, the Jewish international world stock 
exchange capital creeps over the peoples of this earth, gradually 
sucking their marrow and blood. Thousands and thousands of 
its paid agents are untiringly active in the press and in political 
parties, and they confuse public opinion until brother no longer 
recognizes brother. 

The people, in whose eyes one stigmatized the defense of its 
own existence as a crime against human life, kill themselves 
mutually. But while thus lacerating itself, it trusts all the more 
blindly in the solidarity and the help of others. There are still 



APPENDIX 535 

Germans who hope that by their clemency or enlightenment 
our destiny will be changed. 

They forget that, even if the peoples wanted to, their leaders 
would prevent this. 

'300 men who know one another, dominate the world!' 

The man who said this ought to know it, for he is 

not a 'reactionary/ not a 'Pan-German/ not an 'anti-Semite, 

it is PAUL WALTER RATHENAU 

Thus unchallenged ruin takes its course. 

We still talk about ' world peace f and ' national reconciliation, 1 
of 'solidarity of the proletarians 1 and of 'culture conscience, 1 
but the inexorable war of destruction against our people has 
already set in. 

More than 4^ thousand Germans have been slaughtered in 
Upper Silesia, partly in a truly bestial manner. But the German 
people remains indifferent. They are only Germans! 

If somewhere in the world a disaster happens, we collect 
money. If in England there are strikes, we support them. If 
the Hungarian government hangs ten Jewish stock exchange 
profiteers, whose money is sticky with the blood and the sweat 
of hundreds of thousands of honest people, we protest, we cry 
about pogroms and we demand the boycott of an entire State. 

In this way one has made fools of our people. 

In a few months the pressure of Germany's merciless oppres- 
sors will make itself felt in the remotest cottage. 

We will lose Upper Silesia, the Ruhr district will be taken by 
France, our labor force will be pawned, the treasures of our 
soil will come under foreign management, and meanwhile the 
whip of a merciless military rabble oppresses Germany and 
destroys our people. And all this for the sake of quiet and 
world peace. 

Where are the political parties and where is the so-called 
German press. 

So far the sole movement, the National Socialist German 
Workers' Party, honestly and openly, has led the political fight, 



536 APPENDIX 

not according to the considerations of so-called mendacious 
tactics, but according to the iron-like principle of truth. 

In a time when for the seat of a Deputy a man changed his 
principles like his shirts, when compromise was looked upon as 
the sole proof of true genius, as the only anti-parliamentarian 
movement it went straight ahead. 

It saw greatness not in the dead number, but in the living 
spirit, in the uncontrollable will for action. 

German fellow citizens! By an enormous Mass Demonstration 
of all those who accept these principles, who condemn the 
present parliamentarianism and who believe in the future of our 
people, blindly and unshakably like in God, we want again to 
establish and to harden the principles of the movement from 
which alone we hope for the resurrection of the German people. 

Wednesday Wednesday 

July 20, 1921 July 20, 1921 

a GIANT DEMONSTRATION 

will take place at the 

ZIRKUS KRONE 

Speaker: Herr Adolf Hitler 
'FATHERLAND or COLONY' 

Beginning 8 p.m., end 10 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I. - 

War invalids free. 
Summoner of the meeting: Hermann Ester 

The meeting was attended by more than 6000 persons. 



APPENDIX 537 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 

WORKERS 1 PARTY 
HELP SOVIET RUSSIA! 

A cry which today pierces the whole world. 

Hardly 3 years have elapsed since the Jewish apostles of the 
Future State promised to bring men, in Russia, the paradise 
by way of revolution. 

Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity 

happiness and bread, progress and human culture were to be 
demonstrated to the peoples of the world in an unattained model 
example. 

A host of Jewish party secretaries and professional dema- 
gogues did not tire of describing and praising again and again 
this wonder State of human contentedness. 

Reactionary enemy of the people retrogressive capitalist 
mongrel these were the names one gave to the disbelieving 
doubter of this blessing. 

And today! 
Soviet Russia has become a desert! 

Now it can no longer be kept secret that the greatest agrarian 
State has become the greatest cemetery of mankind. 

While now millions of Russian workers, worn out by hunger 
and despair, drag themselves from the cities to the country that 
equally suffers hunger, yet perishing miserably just the same, 
the flood of the destroyers of this Russian people, covered with 
diamonds, rolls towards the west of Europe, towards Germany 
and Switzerland. 

But what is Germany to do? 

We German National Socialists demand that the Russian 
people be given help, not by supporting its present government, 
but by the elimination of its present corrupters. Those who 
today give for Russia do not give for the Russian worker but 
for hit exploiter, the Jewish commissar. 



53S APPENDIX 

German f Maw citizens, come Thursday, August 4, 1921, to the 
great public GIANT DEMONSTRATION at the ZIRKUS 
KRONE 

Speaker: Herr Adolf Hitler about: 
'DYING SOVIET RUSSIA 9 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses for the hall and posters admission M.I.- 
War invalids free Summoner: For the party management, 

A. Drexler 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the ' Vodkische Beobachtcr,' Mtinchen, 
Thierschstr. 15. Contents of the next number: 'The pogrom 
against the German and the Russian people* 'High Finance 
and World Revolution.' 

The meeting was attended by about 6300 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

It is an old criminal trick to join, after the completed act, 
In the call of 

1 Stop thief 

(Censorship gap) 
'Down with the rise of food prices' 

shout today those who are its actual originators. 

The same parties, the same men, who once, without wincing 
signed the dictates of exploitation and enslavement of Spa, 
Versailles, Brussels, Paris and London; the same men who thus 
helped in winding the hunger rope around our people, who 
devalued our money, who made our national production the 
source of gratification of the permanent rapacity of our enemies, 
cry now against the consequences of their criminal activity. 



APPENDIX 539 

We protest against this swindlel 

Parties and men, who tried to make the documents of our 
people's enslavement valid by their own signature, have no 
right to protest against the 

SLAVE YOKE 

German fellow citizens! 

As early as two years ago, at a time when one still lied to the 
German people that now it was marching towards a state of 
infinite happiness, freedom and welfare, the National Socialist 
Party has untiringly emphasized that the consequence of our 
unheard-of cheating of ourselves would be unheard-of misery. 

Today, Friday, August 12, 1921, a great public MASS MEET- 
ING takes place at the Hofbrduhaus. 

Speaker: Heir Adolf Hitler about: 

THE PROTEST AGAINST RISING PRICES, 
A JEWISH SWINDLE 

Beginning 8 p.m. War invalids free 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I. 
Jews not admitted Summoner: For the party management, 

A. D r e x 1 e r 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the ' Voelkische Bcobachter,' Mtinchen, 
Thierschstr. 15. Contents of the coming number: 'Settling 
accounts with the Frankfurter Zeitung' 

The meeting was attended by more than 2000 persons. 



540 APPENDIX 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Slogan after slogan rain down on our people 
! International Solidarity ! 

A state of intimate fraternization is to arrive between English- 
men and Hottentots, between Chinese and Zulu Kafirs, French 
and Japanese, Russians and Germans, etc. 

They are human beings and therefore all equal! 

Although the colors are different, the quantity of brains and 
the physique do not correspond, the way of thinking and the 
achievements are not the same, yet the Jew asserts: they are 
equal, and therefore they are equal. A consequence of this 
equality is therefore the 'international solidarity.' 

But while the peoples dream of this l the same Jew smashes 
the only natural and most intelligible solidarity which ought to 
exist, that of every nation in itself. Immeasurable misery has 
come over Germany today. In Upper Silesia, in continued 
slaughter, thousands of fellow citizens sink into the grave. 

The black disgrace works havoc on the Rhine. Women, girls, 
and children pay for the bestial negroes' lust with their death. 
An uninterrupted stream of poison and disease flows into the 
blood of our people. Moroccan syphilis drives thousands of 
victims towards a cruel death. Tens of thousands of young 
Germans, partly while dreaming, partly while intoxicated, are 
dragged to the Foreign Legion. 

Hundreds of thousands of our children die slowly of under- 
nourishment. 

And now we ask, where remains the international solidarity 
of assistance? 

Bloody mockery I 

While the Entente robs us of more than one million cattle, it 
graciously gives us back a present of 6000 of them as a sign of 
world fraternization. And while Paris still demands the strict 



APPENDIX 54t 

fulfillment of the peace treaties, one assures us of the pity of the 
French proletariat. 

No, in that way Germany will never be free! 
To trust in international help means to build 
on fog and mist. 

Every German ought to have understood today, that inter- 
national and solidarity is only one and the same thing, that is 

rascality, villainy and profiteering 

International, finally, is only the world stock exchange, its 
supporters and guard of followers, the 

Jewish race. 

We German National Socialists have recognized that not 
international solidarity frees the peoples from the ties of inter- 
national capital, but the 

organized national force. 

The presupposition of any solidarity of the nations that 
reaches beyond their own people presupposes the solidarity of 
one's own nation. But this means the integration of the creative 
forces, no matter whether they are intellectuals or manual 
workers, into the party of creative work as compared with the 
wasting drones. 

German Fellow Citizens! 

The National Socialist German Workers' Party asks you all 
to come Thursday, August 25, 1921, to the ZIRKUS KRONE 
to a GIANT DEMONSTRATION against the continued cheat- 
ing of our people by the Jewish agents of the international world 
stock exchange capital. 

Speakers will be: Dr. A. SCHILLING, author, leader of the 
National Socialist German Workers 1 Party at Maehrisch-Ostrau, 
and Herr A. HITLER, Munich, about 

INTERNATIONAL SOLIDARITY, 
A JEWISH WORLD FRAUD 



542 APPENDIX 

Beginning 8 p.m., end 10.30 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I. - 

War invalids free 
Summoner: For the party management, 

A. D r e x 1 e r 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the ' Voelkische Beobachtcr* Mtinchen, 
Thierschstrasse 15. Today's number: Our Counter-settlement 
What we want, if we want. 

The meeting was attended by more than 6000 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

November 9, 1918 Fortune upon Fortune! 

'The hour of liberation from the yoke of capitalism 

has come ' 

'Militarism is smashed' 
'Germany in future no longer sacrifices to this Moloch' 

'After a long time of reactionary barbarity our people 
are now respected and honored among all the others/ 

'The fate of the nations is in future decided by free self- 
determination/ 

'Secret diplomacy is destroyed. 9 

' The nation's right is proclaimed* 

' Freed from war and war atrocities, the nations join in 

the League ' 

4 The wounds of the World War are being cured. Ger- 
many gladly helps 9 

'Prices will be reduced at once' 



APPENDIX 543 

'All corruption of the previous mismanagement of the 
State gives way to greater order and economy/ 4 Hon- 
esty becomes the prime law in the life of the German 
people' And, in short, a model State is formed, a para- 
dise such as the world has not seen before, the 'German 
Republic: 

It has not come exactly like this, but similarly. 

Capital has been freed of every yoke. Germany's militarism 
is smashed. France no longer has to bring sacrifices to her own 
Moloch, this is done by Germany. Our people is loved too be- 
cause it industriously delivers tribute. Our fate is decided on 
in free self-determination, not by us, but by the League of 
Nations. 

Secret diplomacy is no longer necessary: one can sell the 
nations openly without punishment. Meanwhile Germany joy- 
fully cures all wounds which the enemies inflicted on one another. 

The prices have been lowered with ingenious skill, not so much 
for the German but for the foreign countries. 

The State management is purged of all elements of cor- 
ruption and of narrowmindedness of the former Bismarck era, 
clever men stand in its place. Wirth and Gessler, Gradnauer and 
Rathenau and similar cohnsorts. 

Germany faces the great sale 
Complete bankruptcy approaches with gigantic steps. 

Six months sufficed for the government for the fulfillment of 
devaluing the German Mark to zero. A corporation of inter- 
national stock exchange scoundrels has become unrestricted 
master of Germany. Instead of by the kings of the blood, Ger- 
many is ruled by the kings of the stock exchange. 

Leather straps are being cut out of our people. 

And yet, this people are not even allowed to criticize those 
who as the sole culprits threw us into this enormous misfortune. 
The offense against the sovereign has become the offense against 
every Jew in politics. Parties are bargaining, and meanwhile 
one piece of land after the other is lost to Germany. 



S44 APPENDIX 

Fellow citizens, in the face of the loss of an age-old German 
country and in the face of the villainous indifference of those 
who feel themselves called upon to represent a people, we invite 
you to come 

TODAY, Friday, October 21, 1921, at 8 p.m. to the ZIRKUS 
KRONE for the GIANT MANIFESTATION OF PROTEST 
of the National Socialist German Workers' Party. 

Herr Adolf Hitler will speak about: 

'UPPER SILESIA, THE VICTIM OF THE 
STOCK EXCHANGE PARLIAMENT' 

Jews not admitted To cover expenses of the hall and posters, 
admission, M.I.- 

War invalids free Summoner : For the party management, 

A. Drexler 

The meeting was attended by more than 6500 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS 1 PARTY 

Fellow Citizens! 

Remember the days when it was palmed off on the German 
people under promises, that now the end of capitalist rule had 
come and that the truly 

1 Social Republic 9 

would begin. 
And who jubilated and shouted most of all? 

The stock exchange press of Berlin and Frankfort 
And why? 

Because one certainly spoke of socializing shoemakers, tailors, 
carriers, bakers, etc., but not with one word did one mention 
what would have needed socialization most of all: stock exchanges 
and banks. 



APPENDIX 545 

All that was then talked about socialization was clumsy fraud, 
in order to deceive the masses about the fact that the destruction 
of the social economy of our people does not take place for the 
purpose of leading it over into common possession, but in order 
to enable its acquisition by international world capital. 

Not socialization was the aim, but world capitalization! 

But today we see the first sign of this so-called three years 9 
socialization in the selling below cost of the one-time German 
Reich's railways to private capital. Never has a people been 
cheated more wretchedly. 

Today, Friday, November 18, 1921, a great public people's 
meeting takes place at the Hofbrduhausfcstsaal (Platzl). 

Heir ADOLF HITLER will speak about: 

'THE SALE OF THE REICH'S RAILWAYS AS 
THE BEGINNING OF SOCIALIZATION' 

Beginning 8 p.m. Jews net admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I.- 
War invalids free 

White collar and manual workers, officials and employees, 
come in greatest numbers to this meeting. 

Summoner: For the party management, A. Drexler 
The meeting was attended by 2100 persons. 

As early as 1921 the first attempts were made at delivering 
the German State Railways to private capitalist groups. The 
movement at once protested against this and was laughed 
at because of its fears. 



546 APPENDIX 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Fellow Citizens! 

A year ago we called you to the Zirkus Krone. For the first 
time we invited you to a giant protest against making Germany 
defenseless by disarmament. We declared that this making her 
defenseless would be the prelude for the loss of Upper Silesia. 

For the second time we invite you to resistance against the Paris 
Dictate. We called it the permanent enslavement of Germany. 

And a third time we called you to this huge room: 4 We raise 
our protest against the signing of the London Ultimatum, for 
in it we see the cause of a never-ending extortion and exploita- 
tion of our people, an eternal impoverization of our nation. 9 

Three times we have been laughed all 

Today we ask: 
Do people laugh even now? 

Upper Silesia is lost. Germany is politically enslaved as 

never before. 

Poverty no longer begins to appear, it is here. And though 
one does not feel it in the armchairs of the parliaments and in 
the soft cushions of our people's leaders it is felt all the more 
by the millions who have been cheated, by the masses of the 
people who do not live by cheating, profiteering and usury, but 
by the sweat of their honest work. But we are not only a poor 
people, we are also a miserable people. 

We have forgotten the millions of our fellow citizens who 
once, during a long four and a half years, bled for Germany's 
existence on innumerable battlefields, and of whom our father- 
land has been robbed by a cruel fate. 

We have forgotten the millions of those Germans who long- 
ingly await the day which brings them home to a country that 
even as the poorest would still present the happiness of being 
their fatherland. We have forgotten the Rhineland and Upper 



APPENDIX 547 

Silesia, forgotten German-Austria and the millions of our brothers 
in Czechoslovakia, forgotten Alsace-Lorraine and the Palatinate, 
and while our beloved Germany thus lies dismembered, power- 
less and torn, disgracefully robbed, a colony of the international 
world criminals, there we dance. 
We invite you to come Thursday, February 2, 1921, to a 

GIANT DEMONSTRATION for a coming GREATER 
GERMANY to the Zirkus Krone 

Engineer Rudolf JUNG, Deputy of the Prague Parliament, and 

Party Member Adolf HITLER will speak about: 
'GERMANY IN HER DEEPEST HUMILIATION 9 

Beginning 8 p.m., end 10 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I. - 
War invalids free. 

Fellow citizens, white collar and manual workers, Germans from 
all countries of our fatherland, come in masses! 

Summoner : For the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 7000 persons. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

For two years, our movement has been 

slandered and calumniated 

aa no other movement. 

Now we are 'bolshevists,' then again 4 reactionaries, ' then 
"monarchists' and again 4 revolutionaries/ according to the need 
of our opponents. 

The fight which for many a long day we led against the gang 



548 APPENDIX 

of political profiteers and economic speculators is palmed off 
by them in a cunning manner as a 

'FIGHT AGAINST THE FOLKISH STATE' 

In order to uncover the mendacity of this calumny, spread by 
the agents of the actual peoples' tyrants, the Jewish interna- 
tional world stock exchange, we will hold a great people's meet- 
ing on Friday, February 17, 1922, at the Burgerbr&amp;ukcller, Rosen- 
heimer Strasse. 

Herr ADOLF HITLER will speak about: 
'PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OR JEWISH STATE 9 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. Jews not admitted. 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I.- 

War invalids free 
Summoner: For the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by 3600 persons. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

German Fellow Citizens! White collar and Manual Workers! 

In number 90 of the * MUnchner Post' we read the following 
sentence: 

'Even the most honest "policy of fulfillment," which gives 
away its last shirt, will never be able to make the Poincarists 
relinquish their plans. It is no use whatsoever to make a secret 
of this simple truth. With all illusions of a unity of mankind and 
culture solidarity, with our hopes for a victory of right and 
reason, we cannot abolish the bare fact that these rulers of 
France want the ruin of the German Reich and the German 
people, and that so far nobody in this world has found the 
energy and the determination to stop their proceedings. 9 



APPENDIX 549 

For three years 

now we National Socialists preach this commonplace, and in 
return for this the same Milnchner Pest and its backers have 
called us 

'Labor Traitors 9 

and decried and calumniated us as 'capitalist dogs' and 'reac- 
tionary militarists/ 

Of course, for us the above-cited realization was not an empty 
phrase but a sacred obligation to act accordingly and to call 
this entire policy of fulfillment what it was and is, namely, a 
crime against our people. 

But once more they know how to pour new hope into the 
hearts of our credulous people: GENOA. 

After a few months the people will recognize here also that 
once more it has fallen victim to an enormous 

world fraud 

of the Jewish international stock exchange. It will recognize that 
the fruit of these negotiations will not come to the millions of 
our starved, suffering people, but exclusively again to the stock 
exchange and its backers. 

But with us distress will grow, as it has grown more and 
more, despite all the phrases and talks. 

Today, Friday, April 21, 1922, another great MASS MEET- 
ING takes place at the Burgcrbraukeller, Roscnheimer Strasse 

Herr Adolf Hitler will speak about: 

'GENOA, AS A NATIONS 1 OR A STOCK 
EXCHANGE CONFERENCE' 

Beginning of the meeting 8 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I. - 

War invalids free 
Summoner : For the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The fighting organ of the National Socialist movement of 
Greater Germany is the 'Voclkische Beobacktcr,' Munchen, 



550 APPENDIX 

Thierschstr. 15. Friday, April 21, 1922, a special number will be 
published. Contents: Speech of our Party Member Adolf 
Hitler in the Mass Meeting of April 12, 1922. Price of this 
number M.2. - 

The meeting was attended by 3500 persons. 

As will be remembered, truly exuberant hopes were at that 
time attached to the Genoa Conference, a lunacy which the 
National Socialist German Workers' Party immediately opposed 
energetically and was right in the end. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

German Fellow Citizens! 
German youth of all classes and professions/ 

The terror of the Jewish stock exchange and its henchmen 
weighs heavily upon Germany* 

The movement of folkish resistance against the exploitation of 
our people by international finance capital which today the Jew 
is no longer able to fight down with spiritual weapons, he has 
beaten down with force by the stock exchange parties. 

Meetings, celebrations, excursions, etc., were attacked, their 
participants are scattered by the force of the fist. Blood is flow- 
ing without the governments remembering that it is their duty 
to protect also the lives of those who according to their party 
belong perhaps to another direction than that represented by the 
one ruling at the moment. All this we saw coming. 

We never doubted that the moment the folkish movement should 
become a real danger for the 

international stock exchange race 

and for the gang of exploiters they would try to fight it by all 
i of violence 



APPENDIX 551 

Therefore, as the only movement in Germany, we have set out 
to form a 

STORM TROOP 

Its purpose and its task is the work of liberation of our German 
people from the Jewish terror. 

And wherever the storm troops of the National Socialist Ger- 
man Workers' Party have been called into life, the Jewish Marx- 
ist brutality has not only been checked but has frequently broken 
down. But above all we succeeded in carrying out the security of 
the fight against the Jewish stock exchange power in Bavaria's 
capital. 

And we hope that in the course of the years the hundreds of 
our troops will turn into hundreds of thousands, so that the day 
may come when the working and creative German people will 
destroy the power and the force of the Jewish international stock 
exchange and its protecting parties. 

In memory of one year's existence of our storm troops in 
Munich there will take place a great German celebration on Thurs- 
day, August 3, 1922, at the Btirgerbr&amp;ukeller, Rosenheimer Sir asse. 

The concert orchestra of Demmel's Band, increased to 42 mem- 
bers, as well as various excellent solos, will guarantee a successful 
celebration. 

Our Party Member Adolf Hitler will deliver the celebration 
address. 

Beginning 8 p.m. The doors will be opened 6.30 p.m. Tickets 
sold: Corneliusstr. 12. Admission: Party members on presenta- 
tion of membership card M.y.-, non-members M.io- Jews not 
admitted. 

Germans! We invite you: Fellow citizens, think of the hard 
times awaiting us, prepare for defense, come all of you. But above 
all we expect that the German youth, manual and white collar 
laborers, will appear in masses. 

Summoner: For the party management, Anton Drexler 

The meeting was attended by 2500 persons. 



552 APPENDIX 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

When on November 9, 1918, the German people was driven 
into revolution, it was told that this was the beginning of the 
'nations' liberation' from the bonds of * world capitalism.' 

Today the makers of the revolution of that time admit that 
the whole world is ruled by a gang of Jewish stock exchange ban- 
dits, that no longer the nations but the 

'world bankers' 

decide on the destinies of this earth. 

In this way the true purpose of the revolution is fulfilled. 

While the power of the international stock exchange dictator- 
ship, thanks to the protection by the Marxist and democratic 
parties, grows more and more, the last remnants of millions of 
independent existences are destroyed. 

The extinction of our retail traders and of our retail commerce 
is the intended final goal of our present so-called 

'Social' Policy 
A fraud upon the nations such as the world has never seen before. 

Fellow Citizens I 

Members of the doomed classes and professions, small business 
men and small tradesmen, manual laborers and officials, workers 
of all professions and classes! 

Come to the great public MASS MEETING at the Burger- 
brdukellcr-Fcstsaal (Rosmheimer Strasse), on Thursday, Septem- 
ber 28, 1922. 

Our party member Adolf Hitler will speak about: 

1 THE POLICY OF THE DESTRUCTION OP 
OUR MIDDLE CLASS 9 



APPENDIX 553 

Beginning 8 p.m. Jews not admitted 

To cover expenses of the hall and posters admission M.I.- 

War invalids free 
Summoner : For the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 2600 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

TODAY TODAY 

Tuesday. November 21, 1922, a great public 

MASS MEETING 

will take place at the Salvatorkeller (on the Nockherberg) 

Our Party Member 

ADOLF HITLER 

will speak about: 

WHY IS THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST 
MOVEMENT BOUND TO BE VICTORIOUS? 9 

Beginning 8 p.m. Admission M.S.- Jews not admitted 
Fellow Citizens I 

Lie and terror work against our movement as against no other 
movement in Germany. The parties of national fraud and decep- 
tion, the protective troops of the international stock exchange 
rule and of the nations' exploitation, Marxists and Democrats, 
feel the danger which our movement represents to them. They 
shun the hour in which the realization of the great masses will 
call them to account. Thus they believe that what the power of 
their ideas no longer accomplishes, the power of lie and brutality 
will do. Yet they are wrong. For parties may well be broken by 
this, but never the truth of a view of life. 



S54 APPENDIX 

White collar and manual workers, come in masses to this 
meeting. 

Summoner: For the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 2400 persons. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

National Socialists 1 Fellow Citizens! Anti-Semites I 

For three years the German people has been trying to fulfill a 
peace treaty which from the beginning was nothing but an assign- 
ment to centuries of compulsory labor and slavery, as well as to 
exploitation of the German workers. 

For three years the German people slaves and pays billions and 
billions, in order to prevent the enemy as the people are made 
to believe from proceeding to further compulsory steps against 
Germanity. 

And now? 

Now the moment has come 

when France's armies, which are nothing but the 

bailiffs and henchmen of ike international Jewish stock exchange 
capital, nevertheless set out on the inarch across the Rhine and 
occupy the heart of German economy and of German work, 

the Ruhr district. 

The Wirth policy of fulfillment, the trash of understanding and 
the impotent policy of the present parliament has broken down 
most miserably. And yet the new German government wants to 
continue a policy after the pattern of Heir Wirth. 

Fellow Citizens, 

we have to stand up against this. 
We invite you to manifest your will in our 

jive Mass Protest Meetings 



APPENDIX 555 

Today! TODAY! 

Thursday, November 30, 1922, 8 p.m. at the 

Burgerbrdukeller Hofbrduhaus- Festsaal 

(Rosenheimer Str.) (Platzf) 

Lowenbrdukeller Schwabingerbrdu 

(Stiglmayerplatz) (Leopoldstrasse) 

ThomasbrdukeUer 

(Kapuzinerplatz) 

The following party members will speak: 

Anton Drexler Mttnchen Max Weber Munchen 
Dietrich Eckart Miinchen Alexander Schilling 
Walter Riehl Wien Czechoslovakia 

Hans Prodinger Salzburg Walter Kellerbaure Nttrn- 
Sepp Roller Salzburg berg 

Hermann Esser Munchen Anton Dorsch Rosenheim 

Hermann Wagner Odernheim (Occupied Territory) 

Our FQhrer, Party Member ADOLF HITLER will speak briefly 
at all meetings. 

Jews not admitted Admission M.S.- War invalids free 
Summoner: For the party management, A. Drexler 

The meetings were overcrowded and were attended by about 
14,000 persons. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

National Socialists! Anti-Semites! 

Germans of all professions and classes/ 

The party which in four and a half years of unequaled misman- 
agement has ruined Germany, which from the last weapon to the 
last Goldmark sacrificed the German national property to the 



556 APPENDIX 

international stock exchange capital, which in numerous treaties 
pledged German enslavement and bondage, so that today, of 
eight hours' work, every German worker receives hardly two and 
a half hours for himself, because he is forced to sacrifice the rest 
to the Entente, this party now tries to exonerate itself of the sins 
of its criminal activity. 

In trembling fear of the awakening people one looks for the 
'Gravediggers of the German Nation. 1 

German fellow citizens 1 
Now is the time for everybody to speak up openly I 

Those who are today of the conviction that the genuine and 
true gravediggers of the German nation are to be found in no 
other camp than in that of the ' Munchner Post* in the camp of the 
November criminals of 1918 and in their entire following of 
political and economic profiteers, speculators, usurers and stock 
exchange rogues, should come, as a reply to the five Auer meet- 
ings, 

TODAY! Wednesday, December 13, 1922, 8.30 p.m. TODAY! 

to our 

jo GIANT DEMONSTRATIONS 
at the following places: 

B&amp;rgerbraukeller, Rosen- Hirschbraukeller, Zollstr. 

keimerstr. Salvatorkeller, Nockherberg 

Hofbrauhauskeller, Aeuss. Franziskanerkeller, Hochstr. 

Wienerstr. Lawenbrdukeller, Stiglmay- 
Hofbrauhaus- Festsaal, erpl. 

Platd Hacker ketter, TheresienhShe 

Grosser Wirt, Schwabing l Zur Bltite,' Bltitenstr. 18 

Speakers from all German language districts 
Our Ftthrer Party Member ADOLF HITLER 
will speak at all meetings 



APPENDIX 557 

Jews not admitted Admission for hall expenses M.5.- 

War invalids free 
Summoner: for the party management, 

A. Drexler 

The meetings were overcrowded long before the beginning. 
More than 20,000 attending. 



NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

Long live international solidarity! 

This was the slogan with which people beat down the few think- 
ing persons who had recognized the nations' fraternization and 
the solidarity drivel as 

Jewish stock exchange swindle 

Now our people will be able to open its eyes to the effect incor- 
porated in this 

'Solidarity' 

Germany will starve, and nobody will care a straw for it. 

France occupied the Ruhr district, nobody from the rest of the 
world cares about it. Renewed extortions will follow, and nobody 
will feel pity for us. 

What alone could save Germany today? 

Self help! 

And of this sole help the German people has been robbed in 
fifty years' work of undermining by the international stock ex- 
change and its Marxist agents. Today the German people has 
to suffer the reward for the most infamous villainy of world his- 
tory, for its being made criminally defenseless by the 

NOVEMBER CRIMINALS of 1918 



558 APPENDIX 

TODAY! Now come all TODAY? 

Thursday, January n, 1923, 8 p.m. 

to the GIANT MANIFESTATION in the CIRCUS BUILDING 
on the Marshfeld with the slogan : 

'DOWN WITH THE NOVEMBER CRIMINALS 9 
Our FCihrer, Party Member ADOLF HITLER will speak. 

Beginning 8 p.m. Admission to cover expenses of posters, 

Jews not admitted M . i o.- 

Summoner: for the party management, A. D r e x 1 e r 

The meeting was attended by more than 7000 persons. 

On this day was coined the phrase 'November Criminals* 
which since has become a by-word. 

* 

NATIONAL SOCIALIST GERMAN 
WORKERS' PARTY 

National Socialists! Anti-Semites! 

What we have prophesied for 4 years has now arrived. 
Notwithstanding all the phrases of 

International Solidarity Drivel 

France has now set out to occupy the Ruhr district. Now the 
people can thank its erstwhile tempters. We, however, want to 
manifest in these days our solemn Protest against this Act of Vio- 
lence and our fanatical decision to call the culprits to account. 
Therefore we invite you to come to the 

GIANT DEMONSTRATION 

on Sunday, January 14, 1923, at 4 p.m. on the 

KOENIGSPLATZ 

National Socialists and anti-Semites meet at 2 p.m. in the rooms 
of the Btirgerbrdukeller and of the M tinchner-KiiuU-KeUer. 



APPENDIX 559 

We march from there with music and flags at 2.30 p.m. 

Storm troops will meet in formation at 2 p.m. in the garden of 
the Btirgcrbr&amp;ukeller. 

Germans, remember the importance of this historical hour, 
don't mind the weather but the obligation which you have to- 
wards a coming generation. 

Long live the Fatherland! 
The party leaders 

The demonstration was arranged by various organizations and 
it assembled about 80,000 people on the Konigsplatz in Munich. 
Speakers were: Dr. Buckeley and Adolf Hitler. 



END OF VOLUME ONE 



Volume Two 
THE NATIONAL SOCIALIST MOVEMENT 



This translation was prepared under the aus- 
pices of Dr. Alvin Johnson, of The New School 
for Social Research. 



The typography of the text of this book follows 
that of the first German edition. Both italics and 
bold-faced type are used wherever they occurred 
in the original. 



The more important portions of this book, omit- 
ted from the Dugdale Abridgment or condensed 
in that version, are indicated by a dagger at the 
beginning of such passages and by an arrow at 
the end. 



CHAPTER I 
VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 



ON FEBRUARY 24, 1920, the first great mass 
demonstration of our young movement took place. 
In the banquet hall of the Munich Hofbrauhaus 
the twenty-five points of the program of the new party 
were submitted to an audience of almost two thousand and 
each single point was accepted with jubilating agreement. 

With this the first leading principles and lines of direction 
for a fight which was to do away with a veritable host of 
handed-down conceptions and opinions and with unclear, 
even injurious goals, were issued. Into the lazy and 
cowardly bourgeois world as well as into the victorious 
march of the Marxist wave of conquest a new apparition 
of power was to step, in order to stop the wheel of destiny 
in the eleventh hour. - 

It was natural that the new movement might hope to 
gain the importance and the strength necessary for this 
gigantic fight only if, from the first day, it succeeded in 
awakening in the hearts of its adherents the sacred convic- 
tion that with it not a new election slogan was to be forced 
upon political life, but a new view of life of fundamental 
significance was to be put up. 

One has to consider out of what wretched viewpoints 
to-called 'party programs 9 are normally put together and 



564 MEIN KAMPF 

made up or remodeled from time to time. One has to look 
through a magnifying glass at the driving motives of 
especially these bourgeois l program committees 1 in order to 
gain the necessary understanding for the evaluation of these 
program monstrosities. 

It is always one sole care which drives either towards 
renewed establishment of programs or towards changing 
those that exist: the fear of the result of the next election. 
Yes, as soon as in the heads of these parliamentary State 
artists the fear dawns that the beloved people revolts once 
more and tries to slip out of the harness of the old party 
carriage, they repaint the shafts. Then the stargazers and 
party astrologers come, the so-called 'experienced' and 
'shrewd,' mostly old parliamentarians, who are able to 
remember analogous cases in their 'rich years of political 
experience' when finally the masses 1 patience was up, and 
who now feel that something similar menacingly approaches. 
Therefore they take up the old prescriptions, they form a 
'committee, ' they go about listening among the dear people, 
they put their noses into the products of the press, and so 
they gradually scent what the dear great people would like 
to have, what it detests and what it hopes for. Every 
professional group, even every class of employees is minutely 
studied and searched as to their most secret wishes. Also 
the 'evil slogans' of the dangerous opposition are then 
suddenly ripe for an examination and not infrequently, to 
the greatest astonishment of their original inventors and 
propagators, they appear, quite innocently and naturally, 
in the treasury of knowledge of the old parties. 

Thus the committees are formed and they 'revise' the 
old program and issue a new one (whereby the gentlemen 
change their convictions in the way in which the soldier 
in the trenches changes his shirt, namely, whenever it is 
swarming with lice!) in which everybody is given what 
is everybody's. The peasant receives protection for his agri- 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 565 

culture, the industrialist protection for his products, the 
consumer protection for his purchases, the teachers' salaries 
are increased, the official's pension is raised, widows and 
orphans are to be taken care of, to the greatest extent, by 
the State, traffic is promoted, the tariffs are to be lowered 
and even the taxes are to be abolished, though not com- 
pletely, but almost. Sometimes it happens that one has 
nevertheless forgotten one class or that one has not heard 
of a demand current among the people. Then at the last 
moment one patches in where there is room until with a 
clean conscience one may hope that one has calmed and has 
greatly satisfied the host of the normal petty bourgeois and 
their womenfolk. Thus armed in one's mind with confidence 
in the dear Lord and the unshakable stupidity of the 
bourgeois, entitled to vote, one can begin the struggle for 
the ' new shaping ' of the Reich, so to speak. 

Once the election day is over, and the parliamentarians 
have held their last peoples' meeting for five years to come, 
then, in order to turn from the training of the masses 
towards the fulfillment of higher and more agreeable tasks, 
the program committee is dissolved and the reshaping of 
the affair is again given the forms of the struggle for the 
dear daily bread: this, with the parliamentarian, is called 
diets. 

Every morning Mr. People's deputy betakes himself to 
the High House, though not quite into it, but into the 
lobbies where the lists of those present are posted. In the 
strenuous service of the people he signs his name there, and 
as a well-deserved reward accepts a small remuneration 
for these continued wearying efforts. 

After four years or during otherwise critical weeks, when 
the dissolution of the parliamentarian body again begins 
to approach more and more closely, an unconquerable urge 
suddenly creeps over the gentlemen. Just as the larva of 
the cockchafer cannot help turning into a cockchafer, thus 



566 MEIN KAMPF 

now these parliamentary caterpillars leave the great com- 
mon pupae house, and, endowed with wings, they flutter 
out to the beloved people. Now they again talk to their 
voters, speak of their own enormous work and the malicious 
callousness of the others, but the foolish masses, instead of 
gratefully applauding, throw sometimes rude, even spiteful 
expressions at their heads. If this ingratitude of the people 
grows to a certain degree, only one means can help: the 
splendor of the party has to be brushed up, the program 
is in need of improvement, the committee is again called to 
life, and the swindle begins again from the beginning. Con- 
sidering the granite stupidity of our mankind, one should 
not be surprised at the success. Led by its press and 
blinded by the new enticing program, the 'bourgeois 9 as 



By 1930, general dissatisfaction with the parliamentary ideal 
was finding expression in two principal ways: antagonism to 
the ' Party system/ and antipathy to the coalition governments 
which the German electoral law made well-nigh inevitable. 
The political party in Germany was, first of all, a carefully 
controlled entity. There was an executive committee (Partei 
Vorstand) the members of which were often not themselves in 
political life; a Reichstag 'section, 9 paralleled by similar 'sec- 
tions' in the Landtags (Legislatures of the several States) ; and, 
last but not feast, an annual meeting attended by delegates 
from the country as a whole, at which, policies, programs, and 
personalities were passed in review. As a result there was a 
good deal of 4 party discipline/ but there was seldom much 
room for individual leadership and initiative. If a given states- 
man could not satisfy the various supervisory bodies set up by 
his own group, his popularity in the nation as a whole might 
be of little consequence. 

The German electoral law pushed proportional representa- 
tion to near the point of absurdity. On the theory that every 
vote is sacred, the establishment of smaller parties on a scale 
unknown in other countries was a normal aspect of political 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 567 

well as the 'proletarian 9 ballot cattle return to their com- 
mon stable and elect their former deceivers. 

Thus the man of the people and candidate of the con- 
stituent estates again turns into a parliamentarian cater- 
pillar and continues to fatten on the branches of the State 
life, in order to change again, after four years, into an 
iridescent butterfly. 

There is hardly anything more depressing than to observe 
this entire procedure with sober reality, to be compelled 
to watch this betrayal repeat itself again and again. 

However, this is not the spiritual soil from which the 
bourgeois camp can draw the force for fighting out the 
struggle with the organized power of Marxism. 

The gentlemen never seriously think of doing so. f With 
all the admitted narrow-mindedness and mental inferiority 

life. Voting was on a mathematical basis; that is, in so far as 
the Reichstag was concerned, 60,000 votes elected a candidate. 
But additional votes from all the districts were added up, 
and one further candidate for each 60,000 such ballots was 
declared elected. As a consequence, the Party slate was a unit 
Reichstag deputies belonged to their Party rather than to their 
constituencies, and parties sponsoring a Weltanschauung could 
maintain nation-wide organizations although their real strength 
might lie in one district only. 

It is impossible to enter into further detail. We shall have to 
be content with a few generalizations which may help to explain 
why the attack on parliamentary government became so pop- 
ular: a widespread feeling that the parties existed for their own 
sakes rather than for the nation's, and were therefore concerned 
primarily in fostering their own well-being; a tendency to look 
upon the ' man in Berlin ' as a remote functionary, out of touch 
with the actual everyday needs of the people; and a belief that 
the constant maneuvering for power which characterized much 
of the Reichstag life was inherent in the parliamentary system, 
whereas, as a matter of fact, it was a consequence of the inev- 



568 MEIN KAMPF 

of these parliamentary medicine men of the white race, 
they themselves cannot seriously imagine that by way of a 
western democracy they can fight a doctrine which, with 
everything involved, is in the best case a means to an end 
that is applied for paralyzing the opponent and for making 
the way free for their own activity. Although at present a 
part of Marxism in a very clever manner pretends to 
represent an inseparable connection with the principles of 
democracy, one should, if you please, certainly not forget 
that at the critical hour these gentlemen did not care a 
fig for a decision by a majority according to the western 
democratic conception! This happened in the days when 
the bourgeois parliamentarians saw the security of the Reich 
guaranteed in the monumental stupidity of a superior num- 
ber, while Marxism, with the help of a handful of street 
vagabonds, deserters, party bosses, and Jewish journalists, 
abruptly seized power, in this way giving Democracy a 
resounding slap in the face. But it actually takes the 
faithful mind of such a parliamentary juggler of the 
bourgeois democracy to imagine that now, or in future, the 
brutal determination of those interested in, and supporting, 
this world plague could be banished simply by the magic 
formulas of western parliamentarianism. 

Marxism will march with democracy until, by round- 
about means, it succeeds in winning for its criminal aims 
the support of the sane national spiritual world which it 
is determined to eradicate. But if today it came to the 
conviction that in the witch's cauldron of our parliamentary 



itable necessary quest for partners willing to enter into a coali- 
tion. In addition there was the same kind of friction inside the 
Landtags, not to mention the rivalry which existed between the 
Reich and the states. What the Weimar Constitution badly 
needed was reform not of its political essence but of its political 
methodology. 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 569 

democracy a majority could suddenly be brewed which 
be it only a majority that is entitled to legislate would 
seriously attack Marxism, then the parliamentarian jug- 
glery would at once be at an end. Then the flag-bearers of 
the red International would, instead of directing an appeal 
to democratic conscience, issue a flaming call to the prole- 
tarian masses, and at one blow the fight would be trans- 
planted out of the stuffy atmosphere of the meeting halls 
of our parliaments into the factories and the streets. With 
this democracy would at once be done for; and where the 
spiritual agility of these folk apostles in the parliaments 
has failed, the crowbar and the sledgehammer of the 
incited masses of proletarians would succeed exactly as in 
the fall of 1918: with blows they would drive it home to the 
bourgeois world how mad it is to imagine that it could 
oppose the Jewish world conquest with the means of 
western democracy. 

As already stated, in the face of such a player, it takes a 
faithful mind to comply with rules which exist only for 
him for the purpose of bluffing or for his own advantage, 
and which are thrown overboard as soon as they no longer 
correspond to his ad vantage. -4- 

As with all parties of a so-called bourgeois orientation, the 
entire political fight consists actually only in fighting for 
individual parliamentary seats in which attitudes and prin- 
ciples are thrown overboard like sand ballast according to 
expediency, thus their programs are also tuned accordingly 

The Social Democratic Party had insisted from the beginning 
on free general elections as the basis for a constituent assembly. 
It fought down every attempt by radicals to create a govern- 
ment by Soldiers and Workers' Councils. That a constitutional 
assembly would be called had been agreed upon before Ebert 
assented to form a government with the co-operation of the 
General Staff. 



570 MEIN KAMPF 

and although inversely their forces are also measured 
accordingly. They lack that great magnetic attraction 
which the broad masses follow only under the forceful im- 
pression of great overwhelming viewpoints, and of the 
convincing force of unconditional belief in these, coupled 
with the fanatical fighting courage to stand up for them. 

But at a time when the one side, armed with att the weapons 
of even a thousandfold criminal view of life, sets out to storm 
an existing order, the other side can give resistance only if 
this resistance itself is clad in the forms of a new, in our case 
a political, faith, and if it exchanges the slogan of a weak and 
cowardly defense with the battle cry of courageous and brutal 
attack. If therefore today our movement is reproached, 
especially by the so-called national bourgeois ministers, for 



Fear lest the Communist Party might stage a proletarian 
revolution, with or without the military assistance of Russia, 
naturally increased as the vote obtained by that party in- 
creased. That vote was, however, pretty generally an index to 
unemployment and the availability of political relief funds. 
Under the unpopular government headed by Franz von Papen, 
Communism gained appreciably, as a result of the anti-Left 
crusade inaugurated and of the quasi-dictatorial methods 
adopted. On July 31, 1932, the party polled 5,882,626 votes, 
while the Nazis obtained 13,745,780. The next Papen election 
was held on November 7 of the same year. The Communists 
gained 692,583 votes, while the Nazis lost more than 2,000.000 
supporters. This meant that Hitler was back to where he had 
been during his first race against von Hindenburg for the presi- 
dency in 1932, while Thaelmann, the Communist leader, was a 
million and a half votes ahead. 

The great danger was not that the Communists would win 
by themselves. The real peril was that the masses which Hitler 
had activized might desert him and swing over to the opposite 
extreme, as a million of them obviously did in 1932. This risk 
becomes more real if one examines electoral statistics in some 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 571 

instance the Bavarian Center Party, on the ground that it 
is working towards a 'revolution/ there is only one answer 
that one can give to such a political nitwit: yes indeed, we 
are trying to make up for what you, in your criminal stupid- 
ity, failed to do. By the principles of your parliamentary 
cattle trading you have helped to drag the nation into an 
abyss; we, however, in the form of attack and by establish- 
ing a new view of life and by the fanatically unshakable 
defense of its principles, will build the steps on which our 
nation some day will be able again to climb to the temple 
of freedom. 

Therefore in the time of the founding of our movement, 
our first anxiety had constantly to be directed toward pre- 
venting the host of fighters for a new sublime idea from 

of the hotly contested districts. There is reason to believe that 
this danger is one reason why the ' men behind the scenes* made 
Hitler Chancellor in 1933. At any rate, the menace of Com- 
munism was now taken very seriously; and when, on Febru- 
ary 27, 1933 just a few days prior to the election scheduled 
for March 5 the Reichstag building in Berlin was set afire, 
excitement grew by leaps and bounds. The government an- 
nounced that it had seized Communist papers indicating that 
a plot of great dimensions had been planned and that one of 
those who had kindled the fire had been captured red-handed. 
A great many Germans, especially in the rural districts of the 
South credited the reports. The vote for Hitler jumped to 
17,277,180; and strangely enough a good many Communists 
appear to have changed their allegiance. 

General Goering's version of the Reichstag fire has not im- 
pressed observers. No evidence was advanced to show that 
the Communists had staged what from their point of view was 
a ridiculous fiasco; and the trial of van der Lubbe the fire- 
brand who had been apprehended only served to increase 
the general feeling that the unofficial version of that blaze was 
far more convincing than the official version. Newspapermen 
in Berlin at the time have never been able either to reveal in 



572 MEIN KAMPF 

turning into an association for the promotion of parliament- 
ary interests. 

The first preventive measure was thereafter the creation 
of a program, which, in its aim, drove towards a develop- 
ment which merely by its inner greatness seemed suitable 
for scaring off the small and weak minds of our present- 
day party politicians. 

But how correct our conception was that programmatical 
aims have to be coined in the most pointed expressions, 
appeared most clearly from those catastrophic ailments 
which finally led to Germany's collapse. 

Out of this recognition a new State concept was to form 



full or to evaluate properly the volunteer ' information ' which 
at the time was supplied to them from many sources. No major 
witness has thrown light on the matter. The details are re- 
viewed in The Burning of the Reichstag, by Douglas Reed. 

After 1933, Hitler was publicized as the savior of the world 
from Bolshevism. Dr. Goebbels and others propagated the 
idea with great skill, and it was used especially as an argument 
against the Churches. These and their political spokesmen, 
said Goebbels, had been manifestly impotent to stamp out this 
plague, whereas Hitler had wiped the slate clean with one brush 
of the sponge. The Church, and in particular Pope Pius XI, 
were accused of ingratitude for having failed to appreciate so 
great a boon. The Propaganda gained a new impetus when 
civil war broke out in Spain, and General Francisco Franco 
emerged as the leader of a crusade against what was assumed 
to be a revolution fomented by Moscow. But it abruptly 
ceased for the moment on January 30, 1939, when Hitler, ad- 
dressing the Reichstag, aimed his shafts at democracy and 
neglected Communism. 

However that may be, the Communist Party of old has been 
decimated. Its leaders have, it is true, kept up an heroic fight 
against the regime; and their willingness to sacrifice life itself 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 573 

itself which, in turn, is an essential part of our new concep- 
tion of life. 



In the first volume I have already dealt with the word 
'folkish 1 in so far as I had to demonstrate that this 
designation does not seem strictly enough conceived to 
allow the formation of a closed fighting community. All 
kinds of conceptions which widely disagree with all the 
essentials of its significance are now at large, identifying 
themselves with the word 'folkish.' Therefore, before pro- 
ceeding to the tasks and the aims of the National Socialist 
German Workers' Party, I want to give a clarification of 
the conception 'folkish' as well as of its relationship to 
the party movement. 

The conception 'folkish' appears as vaguely defined, 
open to as many interpretations, and as unlimited in its 
practical application as, for instance, the word 'religious/ 
It is very difficult to imagine anything exact conveyed by 
this term, either in the sense of conception of thought or 
in practical application. The designation, religious, be- 
comes tangibly conceivable only the moment when it is 
fused with a definitely outlined form of its effects. It is a 
very nice, although a very cheap explanation to describe 
the nature of a man as 'fundamentally deeply religious.' 

for the good of the cause must command the respect even of 
those who disagree emphatically with their views. The laws 
designate all Communist activity high treason, punishable by 
death, but even so an almost continuous propaganda effort has 
been kept up. The number of agents executed for complicity 
is unknown, estimates varying between figures in hundreds and 
figures in thousands. Many observers predict that if the move- 
ment reappears at all, it will be in the form of ' National Bolshe- 
vism,' Communism in Russia, too, is no longer the Communism 
of 1930. 



574 MEIN KAMPF 

There may perhaps be a few people who feel satisfied with 
such a general term, to whom it may even render a quite 
definite, more or less clear picture of such a condition of a 
soul. But as the great mass consists neither of philosophers 
nor of saints, such a quite generally religious idea will mean 
to the individual only the setting free of his individual 
thinking and acting, without, however, leading to that effec- 
tiveness which grows from the religious inner longing in the 
moment when, out of the purely metaphysically unlimited 
world of thought, a clearly outlined faith is formed. This is 
certainly not an end in itself, but a means to an end ; but 
it is the unavoidably necessary means for reaching the 
end at all. But this purpose is not only an ideal, but ulti- 
mately also an eminently practical one. As on the whole 
one has to make clear to oneself that the highest ideals 
correspond always to the deepest necessities of life, ex- 
actly as the nobility of the most sublime beauty is ulti- 
mately found only in what is logically most expedient, 
f While faith helps in lifting man above the level of an 
animal-like existence, it adds in reality to his power for 
fixing and securing his existence. If one were to take from 
present mankind its principles based on religion and faith, 
which in their practical effectiveness are ethical and moral, 
by eliminating this religious education and without replac- 
ing it by an equivalent, one would be confronted with a 
result amounting to a serious undermining of the founda- 
tions of their existence. Therefore one may well determine 
that man lives not only in order to serve higher ideals, but 
that these higher ideals, inversely, give also the presump- 
tion for his existence as man. Thus the circle is closed. 

Naturally, even in the general word 'religious 1 lie vari- 
ous basic thoughts and convictions, for instance, that of 
the indestructibility of the soul, of the eternity of its exist- 
ence, the existence of a higher being, etc. But all these 
thoughts, no matter how convincing they may be for the 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 575 

individual, are subject to critical examination on his part 
and thus to a wavering affirmation or negation, until guess- 
ing or emotional realization assumes the binding force of 
apodictic faith. This above all is the fighting factor which 
now makes a breach and frees the way for the recognition 
of fundamental religious opinions. 

Without the clearly outlined faith, religiousness in its 
unclear manysidedness would not only be without value 
for human life, but would even probably add to general 
disintegration. 

The designation 'folkish' presents a similar situation'to 
that of the conception 'religious. 1 In it, too, there lie 
various basic realizations. However, although they are of 
the most eminent importance, they are, as far as their form 
is concerned, so little clearly defined that they rise above 
the value of an opinion to be more or less recognized only 
if, as the basic elements, they are integrated into the frame 
of a political party. For the materialization of the ideals of a 
view of life and the postulates derived from them takes place 
through pure feeling or the inner witt of men in themselves just 
as little as perhaps the gaining of freedom through a general 
longing for it. No, only if the ideal urge for independence 
receives, in the forms of military means of power, the fighting 
organization, can tJte urgent wish of a people be turned into 
glorious realization.** 

Every view of life, though it may be right a thousand times 
and of the highest value to mankind, will remain without 
importance for the practical working-out in detail of a nation's 
life, unless its principles have become the banner of a fighting 
movement which, in turn, will be a party until its effects have 
fulfilled themselves in the victory of its ideas, and its party 
dogmas now form the new basic State principles of tiie people's 
community. 

f But if a general spiritual conception is to serve as the 
foundation of a coming development, then the first pre- 



576 MEIN KAMPF 

sumption is the creation of absolute clarity about the 
nature, the kind and the size of this conception, as only on 
such a basis can a movement be formed which by the inner 
homogeneity of its convictions is able to develop the force 
necessary for the fight. Out of general conceptions a politi- 
cal program, and out of a general view of life a definite 
political faith have to be coined. This faith, since its goal 
has to be one that can be practically achieved, will not 
only have to serve the idea in itself, but it will also have 
to consider the fighting means which exist and have to 
be applied for gaining the victory of this idea. The ab- 
stractly correct spiritual conception which the program- 
maker has to preach must be accompanied by the practical 
knowledge of the politician. Thus an eternal ideal, as the 
guiding star of mankind, must unfortunately resign itself 
to taking into consideration the weaknesses of mankind if 
it wants to avoid failing from the very beginning, in con- 
sequence of general human inadequacy. The searcher for 
truth, therefore, has to associate with the judge of the 
psyche of a people in order to draw and to shape, out of 
the realm of the eternally true and ideal, what is humanly 
possible for small mortals. 

The transformation of an ideal conception of highest 
veracity, based upon a general view of life, into a definitely 
limited, tightly organized political community of believers 



These passages are directed against the various folkish groups 
which were averse to being swallowed up in Hitler's organiza- 
tion or to accepting his leadership. References have been made 
to them in previous annotations. Particular attention may be 
called to three which loomed large in the years between 1924 
and 1927. The South German branch of the D.N.V.H., an 
organization of Christian salaried employees, undertook a con- 
siderable amount of folkish educational work. Though a large 
part of the membership subsequently became Nazis, the great 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 577 

and fighters, uniform in spirit and will power, is the most 
significant achievement, as solely on its fortunate solution 
the possibility of a victory of the idea depends. Therefore, 
out of the host of sometimes millions of people, who indi- 
vidually more or less clearly and distinctly guess this truth, 
partly perhaps understand it, one man must step forward 
in order to form, with apodictic force, out of the wavering 
world of imagination of the great masses, granite principles, 
and to take up the fight for their sole correctness, until out 
of the playing waves of a free world of thought a brazen 
rock of uniform combination of form and will arises. 

The general right for such an activity is based on its 
necessity, the personal right, in success. 



If we try to extract from the word ' folkish ' the innermost 
nucleus, representing its meaning, we come to the following 



Our present current political conception of life is gen- 
erally based upon the conception that one can ascribe to 
the State in itself a creative culture-forming force, but that 

majority voted for the German National Party at the time 
Hitler was writing. The German Folkish Freedom Movement, 
embodying the remnants of the party which Graefe had lead to 
a minor triumph in 1924, continued to hold out against Hitler. 
The two men fought many a long-distance oratorical duel, 
there was a lawsuit between them, but Graefe eventually lost 
ground. In addition Anton Drexler kept a Munich rival organ- 
ization alive the National-sozialtT Volksbund (National 
Social People's Union). For a time Hitler warred against these 
and similar groups more intensively than he did against the 
Marxists. The last important association of this land the 
Widerstands Kreis, led by Ernst Niekiesch was practically 
wiped out in 1938, when virtually all the leaders were sent to 
prison. 



578 MEIN KAMPF 

it has nothing to do with racial presumptions, and that it 
is rather a product of economic necessities, but at best 
the natural result of the political urge for power. This 
fundamental view, in its further logical and consequent 
development, leads not only to a mistaken recognition of 
racial original forces, but also to an undervaluation of the 
individual. For the negation of the difference of the several 
races as regards their general culture-creating forces, must 
necessarily also transfer this greatest error to the judgment 
of the individual person. The belief in the equality of the 
races will then become the basis of an equal manner of 
observation of the peoples and further for the individual 
man. Therefore Marxism itself is nothing but the trans- 
mission, carried out by the Jew Karl Marx, of a long 



Long before Marx, the Catholic Church had taught the 
equality of men before God. It entrusted the defense of that 
equality to a Papacy 'set above the nations' in order to uphold 
the universalistic validity of Christian traditions concerning 
God and man. This Papacy has often been attacked as a source 
of 'divided Catholic allegiance/ But regardless of whether 
Vatican diplomacy acted rightly or wrongly in given concrete 
instances, there can be no doubt today that either those tradi- 
tions have international validity, or that they have no validity 
at all. Hitler carefully avoided any attack on the Catholic 
Church in Mein Kampf. But the conflict which has since then 
developed is implicit in his repudiation of all international 
values, as the ablest Christian students clearly saw long before 
1933. Marx, faithful to his neo-Hegelian epistemology, did not 
recognize the validity of Christian theology ; but based his whole 
doctrine upon the validity of the teaching that human rights 
are universal. This he derives from Christian, not Jewish teach- 
ings; and as time has gone on it has become evident that the 
suppression of human rights as understood by the Marxist has 
its corollary in the suppression of human rights as understood 
by the Christian, in particular by the Catholic. 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 579 

existing attitude and conception, conditioned by a view of 
life, to the form of a definite political creed : international 
Marxism. Without the basis of such a general, previously 
existing poisoning, the astounding political success of this 
doctrine would never have been possible. Karl Marx was 
really the only one among millions who, in the swamp of 
a gradually decomposing world, recognized, with the keen 
eye of the prophet, the most essential poison elements, took 
them out, in order to render them, like a magician of the 
black arts, into a concentrated solution for the quicker 
destruction of the independent existence of the free nations 
of this earth. But all this in the service of his race. 

The Marxist doctrine is the brief spiritual extract of the 
view of life that is generally valid today. Merely for this 
reason every fight by our so-called bourgeois world against 
it is impossible, even ridiculous, as this bourgeois world 
also is essentially interspersed with all these poison ele- 
ments, and worships a view of life which in general is dis- 
tinguished from the Marxian view only by degrees or per- 
sons. The bourgeois world is Marxist, but it believes in the 
possibility of a domination of certain human groups 
(bourgeoisie), while Marxism itself plans to transmit the 
world systematically into the hands of Jewry, 
f In opposition to this, the 'folkish' view recognizes the 
importance of mankind in its racially innate elements. In 
principle, it sees in the State only a means to an end, and 
as its end it considers the preservation of the racial existence 
of men. Thus it by no means believes in an equality of 

Here Hitler departs from Hegel, to whom his 'totalitarian- 
ism 9 seems to owe very little. In so far as it has a philosophic 
foundation, it derives from Fichte and Plato. The State is an 
instrument for the realization of a Weltanschauung. On the one 
hand, it is a propaganda instrument for inculcating into one's 
own and other peoples the doctrine of the superiority of the 



580 MEIN KAMPF 

the races, but with their differences it also recognizes their 
superior and inferior values, and by this recognition it feels 
the obligation in accordance with the Eternal Will that 
dominates this universe to promote the victory of the better 
and stronger, and to demand the submission of the worse 
and the weaker. Thus in principle it favors also the funda- 
mental aristocratic thought of nature and believes in the 
validity of this law down to the last individual. It sees 
not only the different values of the races, but also the dif- 
ferent values of individual man. In its opinion, out of the 
masses emerges the importance of the person, but by this 
it has an organizing effect, as contrasted with disorganiz- 
ing Marxism. It believes in the necessity of idealizing 
mankind, as, in turn, it sees in this the only presumption 
for the existence of mankind. But it cannot grant the right 
of existence to an ethical idea, if this idea represents a 
danger for the racial life of the bearers of higher ethics; 
for in a hybridized and negrified world all conceptions ol 
the humanly beautiful and sublime, as well as all concep- 



Aryan race. On the other hand, it is also an instrument of war 
to be used in securing whatever is needed for the enrichment 
of that race. To the query, 4 Why should the superiority of the 
Aryan race be so important? ' Hitler also gives the answer in 
this vitally significant passage: the race must be maintained 
in a position of superiority because it is the only foundation on 
which superiority can be conceded to the leaders and exemplars 
of that race. Men are divided into rulers and ruled because 
only so can the two ends of an aristocracy rooted in nature be 
served : organization for racial improvement, and organization 
for racial aggrandizement. Those to whom the guardianship of 
the Weltanschauung and therewith of the State also are en- 
trusted cannot tolerate any other ethical idea. For in such an 
idea there can be neither goodness nor beauty as they under 
stand such things. 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 581 

tions of an idealized future of our mankind, would be lost 
forever. * 

In this world human culture and civilization are in- 
separably bound up with the existence of the Aryan. His 
dying-off or his decline would again lower upon this earth 
the dark veils of a time without culture. 

The undermining of the existence of human culture by 
destroying its supporters appears, in a folkish view of life, 
as the most execrable crime. He who dares to lay hand 
upon the highest image of the Lord sins against the benevo- 
lent Creator of this minade and helps in the expulsion 
from Paradise. 

With this the folkish view of life corresponds to the 
innermost will of nature, as nature restores that free play 
of the forces which is bound to lead to a permanent mutual 
higher breeding, until finally the best of mankind, having 
acquired the possession of this earth, is given a free road 
for activity in domains which will lie partly above, partly 
outside it. 

We all sense that in the distant future problems could 
approach man for the conquest of which only a highest 
race, as the master nation, based upon the means and the 
possibilities of an entire globe, will be called upon. 



It is obvious that such a general establishment of the 
contents of a folkish view of life, according to its meaning, 
can lead to a thousandfold interpretation. Actually we find 
hardly one of our new political formations which does not 
call upon this conception of life in one way or another. 

This is probably an allusion to Nietzsche. On the other hand, 
it may embody some dimly visualized picture akin to 
Stefan George of a Roman Empire to be, wrestling with 
problems of over-population and kindred ills. 



582 MEIN KAMPF 

But just by its own existence, as contrasted with the many 
others, it proves the differentiation of its conceptions. 
Thus the Marxist world concept, led by a central peak 
organization, is confronted with a hodge-podge of concep- 
tions which merely from the viewpoint of the idea is little 
impressive as compared with the closed hostile front. Vic- 
tories are not won with such weak weapons! Not until the 
international view of life politically led by organized 
Marxism is opposed by a folkish view of life, just as 
uniformly organized and led with equal fighting energy, will 
success take the side of eternal truth. 

But the organizing perception of a view of life can forever 
only take place on the basis of a definite formulation of the 
latter, and what the dogmas represent for faith, the party prin- 
ciples are for the political party in the making. 

With this, therefore, an instrument must be created for the 
folkish view of life which gives it the possibility of representa- 
tion by way of fighting, similar to the way in which the Marxist 
party organization frees the road for internationalism. 

This is the goal that the National Socialist German 
Workers' Party pursues. 

That such an establishment of the folkish conception 
from the party viewpoint is the presumption for the victory 
of the folkish view of life is most keenly proved by a fact 
which is admitted, at least indirectly, even by the oppo- 
nents of such a party tie. Just those who do not tire of 
emphasizing that the folkish view of life is not at all the 
'hereditary estate' of an individual, but that it slumbers or 
'lives' in the hearts of God knows how many millions, 
testify by this that the fact of a general presence of such 
conceptions was not able to prevent the victory of the 
hostile view of life, representing the party viewpoint of a 
class. If it were different, then the German people would 
already have gained a gigantic victory and would not be 
standing on the brink of an abyss. What gave the inter- 



VIEW OF LIFE AND PARTY 511 

national conception of life its success was that it was 
represented by a political party, organized in the manner of 
storm troops; what made the opposing view of life suc- 
cumb was that so far it lacked a uniformly shaped repre- 
sentation. Not in an unrestricted release of the interpreta- 
tion of a general view, but only in the limited and thereby 
integrating form of a political organization, can a view of 
life fight and conquer. 

Therefore I saw my own task especially in extracting 
from the abundant and unshaped material of a general view 
of life and in molding into more or less dogmatic forms 
those nuclear ideas which in their clear demarcation are 
suitable for bringing together those people who take their 
allegiance to this. In other words: The National Socialist 
German Workers 9 Party takes over, out of the basic trend of 
thoughts of a general conception of life, the essential features, 
and out of these, with consideration of practical reality, of 
time and of the existing human material as well as of its 
weaknesses, a political creed that now, in turn, by the tightly 
organizing integration of great human masses, made possible 
by this, creates the presumption for the victorious fighting 
through of this view of life. 



CHAPTER II 
THE STATE 



AS EARLY as in the years 1920-21, our young move- 
ment was again and again reproached by the out- 
lived bourgeois world of today because our attitude 
towards the present State was one of rejection, and from 
this these footpads of political parties of all directions drew 
the justification of undertaking, with all means, the suppres- 
sion of the young and disagreeable announcer of a new view 
of life. But here, of course, they forget deliberately that the 
present bourgeois world itself is no longer able to produce 
a uniform conception of the State, and that a uniform defi- 
nition does not and cannot exist. For the interpreters are 
found, in most cases, in the guise of teachers of political 
law, whose highest task is to find explanations and inter- 
pretations for the more or less fortunate existence of their 
bread-supplying source of the moment. Xhe more impossi- 
ble the nature of such a State is, the more impenetrable, 
artificial and unintelligible are the definitions of its purpose 
of existence. What, for instance, should a former Imperial 
and Royal University professor have written about the 
meaning and the purpose of the State, in a country whose 
existence as a State probably embodied the greatest mon- 
strosity of the twentieth century? A difficult task, con- 
sidering that for the teacher of the affairs of political law 



THE STATE 585 

there exists not so much an obligation to the truth, but 
rather a bondage to a definite purpose. But the purpose is: 
preservation at any price of the current monster of human 
mechanism, called State. Therefore one should not be sur- 
prised if, when discussing this problem, actual viewpoints 
are avoided as much as possible in order to dig oneself in- 
stead into a hodge-podge of 'ethical/ 'moral,' and other 
ideal values, tasks and aims. 

In general three conceptions can be distinguished : 

(a) The group of those who see in the State simply a more 
or less voluntary integration of people under one governmental 
power. 

This group is the most numerous. In its ranks are found 
especially the worshipers of our present principle of legiti- 
macy, in whose eyes the people's will plays no r61e whatso- 
ever in this entire affair. For these saints, in the fact of a 
State's existence alone lies its sacred inviolability. In order 
to support this lunacy of human brains, one needs an actu- 
ally doglike reverence for the so-called State authority. 
In the heads of these people a means is forthwith turned 
into the final end. The State's purpose is no longer to serve 
the people, but the people's purpose is to worship a State 
authority which includes even the most humble, in some 
way official spirit. To prevent this state of quiet, enrap- 
tured reverence from turning into one of unrest, the State 
authority's purpose is now to uphold quiet and order. It 
too is now a purpose and no longer a means. State author- 
ity has to care for quiet and order, and quiet and order, in 
their turn, have to make the State authority's existence 
possible. Thereupon all life has to revolve between these 
two poles. 

In Bavaria, such a conception is represented primarily 
by the State artists of the Bavarian Center Party, called 
'Bavarian People's Party'; in Austria it was the black and 
yellow legitimists; in the Reich proper it is frequently un- 



586 MEIN KAMPF 

fortunately the so-called conservative elements whose con- 
ception of the State moves along these tracks. 

(b) The second group of people is numerically a little 
smaller, because those have to be counted among it who 
attach to the existence of the State at least a few conditions. 
They not only desire equal administration, but also, if pos- 
sible, an equal language be it only from the viewpoints 
of administrative technics. The State authority is no longer 
the sole and exclusive purpose of the State, but to this is 
added the promotion of the welfare of the subjects. Ideas 
of 'liberty/ mostly incorrectly understood at that, are in- 
troduced into the State conception of these circles. The 
governmental form appears no longer inviolable by the fact 
of its existence in itself, but it is examined as to its expedi- 
ency. The sanctity of antiquity is no protection against 



The attack is directed not against the contrat social but 
against the so-called 'legitimist principle.' This was generally 
subscribed to by more conservative commentators on the 
nature of German government (e.g., Giese and Jellinek), who 
for example debated the question as to how the authority of 
the state had been transferred from the Kaiser, to whom by 
assumption it rightfully belonged, to the Weimar Republic. 
Elaborate proof was advanced to show that there had been a 
legal transfer from Wilhelm to Prince Max of Baden, from 
him to Friedrich Ebert, and from him to a constitutional as- 
sembly. Accordingly attacks on the Republic were considered 
intrinsically illegal, unless it was assumed (as many of the 
conservatives did) that the Kaiser had not made the transfer 
voluntarily and could therefore rightfully take the authority 
back again. In Bavaria the People's Party maintained, theo- 
retically at least, that the Wittelsbachs had not deeded away 
their authority, and that therefore it had been usurped by 
Eisner and the Revolution. The monarchy, in their view, re* 
mained the only rightful government. Austrian legitimists 
adopted the same attitude. And therefore, because Wilhelm 



THE STATE 587 

criticism on the part of the present. For the rest it is a con- 
ception which demands of the State, above all, a favorite 
working-out of the economic life of the individual, and 
which therefore from the practical point of view passes 
judgment according to generally economic conceptions of 
lucrativeness. We meet the chief representatives of this 
opinion in the circles of our normal German bourgeoisie, 
especially in those of our liberal democracy. 

(c) The third group is numerically the weakest. 

It sees in the State a means for the realization of mostly 
very vaguely conceived tendencies of political power of a 
linguistically molded and united State people. Thereby 
the will for a uniform State language is not only expressed 
in the hope of creating with this a foundation of the State 
which would enable it to support its exterior growth in 



had formally abdicated, many supporters of the Habsburgs and 
Wittelsbachs felt that their princes had first right to the throne 
of the German Empire. In the circles which Hitler frequented, 
the legitimist point of view prevailed ; and he had as a matter 
of fact received support in the first place because it was felt 
that he and his followers would help restore the monarchy. 
The Weimar Constitution seemed to take the social contract 
point of view, in the statement, 'All power goes out from the 
people.' But this was interpreted in so many different ways 
by the signers of that Constitution that any one analysis of it 
would be unacceptable. 

This is, on the whole, an attempt to set forth the German 
4 liberal ' tradition as it was reflected in the Weimar Constitu- 
tion. The preamble to that constitution reads: 'The German 
people, united in their racial elements and impelled by the will 
to renew and strengthen their Reich, to serve in freedom and 
justice the ends of peace at home and abroad, and to further 
social progress, have established this Constitution. ' By 'united 
in their racial elements 9 the signers doubtless meant more than 



588 MEIN KAMPF 

power, but not less in the moreover basically wrong 
opinion, that by this nationalization could be carried out in 
a definite direction. 

During the past hundred years it was truly a misfortune 
to be compelled to observe how in these circles, sometimes 
in the best of faith, one played with the word ' Germanizing.' 
I myself remember how during my youth this very word 
led to quite unbelievably wrong conceptions. Even in Pan- 
German circles one could at that time hear the opinion that 
Austrian Germanity, with promoting help on the part of 
the government, could very well succeed in a Germaniza- 
tion of the Austrian Slavs, whereby, however, one did not 
in the least see clearly the fact that a Germanization can 
only be carried out with the soil and never with men. For 
what one generally understood by this word was only the 
enforced outward acceptance of the German language. 
But it is a hardly conceivable mistake in thinking to be- 
lieve that, let us say, a negro or a Chinese would become a 
German because he learns German and is prepared to 
speak the German language in the future and perhaps to 
give his vote to a German political party. It never became 
clear to our bourgeois national world that any Germaniza- 
tion of this kind is in reality a de-Germanization. For if to- 
day by the enforcement of a general language the differences 



4 united by language.' The phrase was a reminder that the 
Assembly frowned upon separatist efforts and was determined 
to keep Prussians, Bavarians, and Suabians together inside the 
boundaries staked out by Bismarck. Nevertheless language 
would have been accepted on all sides at the time as the great 
single contributory factor toward the attainment of unity. 
The Weimar Constitution was not an innovation but a re- 
statement in terms of constitutional law of much that had 
thitherto been common law. Cf . The Crisis in German Democ- 
racy, by Herbert Kraus. 



THE STATE 589 

between various peoples that hitherto caught the eye are 
bridged and finally wiped out, it would mean the beginning 
of a hybridization and with this, in our case, not a German- 
ization but a destruction of the Germanic element. In his- 
tory it happens only too frequently that the outward means 
of power of a conquering people succeeds in forcing their 
language upon the oppressed, but that after a thousand 
years their language is spoken by a different people and the 
conquerors thus become actually the vanquished. 

As the nationality, or rather the race, is not rooted in the 
language but in the blood, one could be permitted to speak 
of a Germanization only if one could succeed in changing, 
by such a procedure, the blood of the subjugated. But this 
is impossible. Except, perhaps, if by a blood blending a 
change were to take place which then, however, would mean 
the lowering of the standard of the higher race. Therefore 
the final result of such a procedure would be the destruction 
of just those qualities which once made the conquering peo- 
ple capable of victory. By a coupling with a lower race, the 
cultural energies especially would disappear, though the re- 
sulting mixture would speak a thousand times the language 
of the formerly higher race. For some time there will take 
place a certain wrestling between the various mentalities 
and it may be that then the more and more sinking people, 
in a last effort, so to speak, will bring to light astounding 
cultural values. But they are only the single elements per- 
taining to the higher race or bastards, in whom after the 
first crossing the better blood has the upper hand and which 
now tries to struggle through ; but never the final products 
of cross-breeding. In them a culturally backward move- 
ment will always show itself. 

t Today it must be considered a fortunate circumstance 
that a Germanizjation as it was intended by Joseph II of 
Austria was not carried out. Its success would probably 
have been the conservation of the Austrian State, but also 



59C MEIN KAMPF 

the lowering of the racial level of the German nation, 
brought about by a linguistic community. In the course of 
the centuries a certain herd instinct would certainly have 
crystallized itself, but the herd itself would have become in- 
ferior. Perhaps a State people would have been born, but 
a culture people would have been lost. 

For the German nation it was better that this process of 
mixing did not take place, although not as the consequence 
of a noble realization, but by the short-sighted narrow- 
mindedness of the Habsburgs. If it had come about other- 
wise, then the German people could hardly be called a cul- 
ture factor today. 

But not only in Austria, also in Germany herself the so- 
called national circles were and are motivated by similar 
wrong trends of thought. The Polish policy in the sense of a 
Germanization of the East, demanded by so many, rooted 
unfortunately almost always in the same wrong conclusion. 
Here too one believed that one could bring about a Ger- 
manization of the Polish element by a purely linguistic in- 
tegration into the German nationality. Here too the result 
would have been an unfortunate one: people of an alien 
race, expressing its alien thoughts in the German language, 
compromising the height and the dignity of our own na- 
tionality by its own inferiority. 

How terrible is even today the damage that is indirectly 
inflicted upon our Germanity by the fact that the German 
haggling Jewry, upon stepping on American soil, is put on 



This is a critique of those German elements which before the 
War had a protagonist in Dr. Alfred Hugenberg. They more 
or less identified national growth with capitalistic expansion, 
and looked upon the enforcement of linguistic uniformity as a 
means of preventing disorder. In addition the spread of the 
German language meant the growth of German trade, prestige 
and power. 



THE STATE 591 

our German account, in consequence of the ignorance of 
many Americans. But in the merely outward fact that this 
people's migration from the East, swarming with lice, 
speaks German, nobody will see the proof of their German 
descent and nationality. -4- 

What in history has been profitably Germanized was the soil 
which our forefathers acquired through the sword and settled 
with German peasants. In so far as they thereby led foreign 
blood to our national body, they helped toward that unhappy 
splitting up of our inner life unfortunately even often 
praised which expresses itself in the German super-in- 
dividualism. 

t Also in this third group the State, in a certain sense, it 
looked upon as a purpose in itself, and the preservation of 
the State therefore as the highest task of human exist- 
ence. 

In summing up, one can state the following: all these 
opinions have their deepest root not in the realization that 
the forces which create culture and values are primarily 
based upon racial elements and that therefore the State, 
according to its meaning, has to consider the preservation 



The process of Germanization defined as conquest of the soil 
by German peasants is simple enough if one thinks merely in 
terms of territorial extension. But the phrase has deeper con- 
notations. The Kaiser once coined the sentence, 'Wherever 
the German eagle sets down its talons, there is a land that is 
German and will remain German.' This strikes the note which 
Hitler deepened. Modern Nazi comment (Darr6 and Rosen- 
berg) gives the term 'soil' a whole set of mystical implications. 
Thus Karl Troebs writes: 'The deeper meaning of the term 
fatherland, patria terra, is this that it is not merely a land 
where our fathers have lived, but that it is the land which is 
our father the primal basis and source of our existence.' 
Cf. Deutsche Kultur in Leben der Voelker (1938). 



592 MEIN KAMPF 

and the raising of the race, this fundamental condition of all 
human cultural development, as its highest task. 

The Jew, Karl Marx, was able to draw the ultimate con- 
clusion from those erroneous conceptions and opinions 
about the nature and the purpose of a State: the bourgeois 
world by severing the idea of the State from racial obliga- 
tions, without arriving at another, equally acknowledged 
formulation, paved the way for a doctrine which denies the 
State in itself. 

For this reason, even in this field the fight of the bour- 
geois world against the Marxist International was bound 
to fail completely. It has long sacrificed the very founda- 
tions which would be inevitably necessary for the support 
of its own structure, and with the weapons that these weak- 
nesses themselves supplied without knowing it, it storms 
upon it. 

Therefore, the first obligation of a new movement 
which is based upon the ground of a folkish view of life 
is to see to it that the conception of the nature and the 
purpose of existence of a State receives a uniformly clear 



Then the basic realization is that the State represents not 
an end, but a means. It is indeed the presumption for the for- 
mation of a higher human culture, but not its cause. On the 
contrary, the latter lies exclusively in the existence of a race 
capable of culture. Hundreds of exemplary States may ex- 
ist on this globe, but in case of a dying-off of the Aryan 
culture supporter, no culture would exist which would 
correspond to the spiritual level of the highest peoples of 
today. One can even go further and say that the fact of 
human State formation would not in the least exclude the 
possibility of the destruction of the human race, in so 
far as the superior intellectual ability and elasticity, in 
consequence of the lack of its racial supporters, would be 
lost. 



THE STATE 593 

f If today, for instance, the surface of the earth were up- 
set by a tectonic event of some kind, and if out of the floods 
of the ocean a new Himalaya were to rise, thus by one sin- 
gle cruel catastrophe the culture of mankind would be de- 
stroyed. No State would exist any longer, all bonds of order 
would be dissolved, the documents of a thousand years 9 
development would be smashed, one vast field of death, 
covered with water and mud. But if from this chaos of hor- 
ror only a few people of a certain culture-capable race were 
preserved, then the earth would, even after a thousand 
years' duration, after its quieting down, again receive 
proofs of human, creative energy. Only the destruction of 
the last culture-capable race and its individual supporters 
would turn the earth into a desert forever. But on the 
other hand we even see, from examples of the present, that 
State formations in their tribal beginnings, if their racial 
supporters lack genius, are not able to guard them against 
destruction. Exactly as great animal species of prehistoric 
times had to give way to others and perished without leav- 
ing a trace, thus man also will have to give way if he lacks a 
specific spiritual force which alone enables him to find the 
necessary weapons for his self-preservation.-^ 

It is not the State in itself that creates a definite cultural 
level, it can only preserve the race which conditions the 
latter. In the reverse case the State as such may be able 
to continue to exist unchanged for centuries, while, in con- 
sequence of a race blending which it did not prevent, the 
cultural ability of a people, and the general aspect of its 
life, conditioned by this, have long since suffered a pene- 
trating change. The present State, for instance, may as a 
formal mechanism, very well simulate an existence for so 
and so long a time, but the racial poisoning of our national 
body creates a cultural decline which already becomes ter- 
rifyingly apparent, 

Thus the presumption for the existence of a higher humanity 



594 MEIN KAMPF 

is not the State, but the nationality which possesses the essen- 
tial ability. 

This ability will always be present in principle, and it 
has only to be aroused to practical materialization by defi- 
nite external conditions. Nations, or rather races, which are 
culturally and creatively talented harbor in themselves 
these useful qualities, even if for the moment unfavorable 
external conditions do not permit a materialization of these 
latent tendencies. Therefore it is also an unbelievable of- 
fense to portray the Germans of the pre-Christian era as 
'cultureless,' as barbarians. This they never were. Only 
the harshness of their Nordic home forced them into cir- 
cumstances which prevented a development of their crea- 
tive energies. If, without any classical civilization, they 
had come to the more favorable areas of the South and if, 
from the material of the inferior nations, they had received 
the preliminary technical means, then the culture-forming 
abilities slumbering in them would have grown into most 
radiant bloom exactly as was the case, for example, with the 
Hellenes. But this culture-creating primeval force itself 
has its source not only in their Nordic climate. The Lap- 
lander, brought to the South, would have just as little a 
culture-creating effect as the Eskimo. No, it is just the 
Aryan who is endowed with this glorious, creatively active 
ability, no matter whether he harbors it in a latent condition 
or whether he presents it to an awakening life, depending on 
whether favorable circumstances permit this or inhospitable 
Nature prevents it. 
f From this results the following conclusion: 

The State is a means to an end. Its end is the preservation 
and the promotion of a community of physically and psy- 
chically equal living beings. This very preservation comprises 
first the racial stock and thereby it permits the free develop- 

An interesting criticism and evaluation of the United States. 



THE STATE 595 

ment of all the forces slumbering in this race. Again and again 
a part of them will primarily serve the preservation of the 
physical life and only another part will serve the promotion 
of a further mental development. But actually the one always 
creates the presumption for the other. 

States that do not serve this purpose are faulty specimens, 
even miscarriages. The fact of their existence makes as little 
difference as perhaps the success of a filibuster community is 
able to justify robbery. 

We National Socialists, as the protagonists of a new view 
of life, must never stand on the famous 'ground and 
false at that of facts/ In this case we would no longer be 
the fighters for a new great idea, but the coolies of the pres- 
ent lie. We must sharply distinguish between the State as 
a vessel and the race as the content. This vessel has mean- 
ing only if it is able to preserve and to protect the contents; 
in the reverse case it is useless.-* 

Thus the highest purpose of the folkish State is the care for 
the preservation of those racial primal elements which, supply- 
ing culture, create the beauty and dignity of a higher humanity. 
We, as Aryans, are therefore able to imagine a State only to be 
the living organism of a nationality which not only safeguards 
the preservation of that nationality, but which, by a further 
training of its spiritual and ideal abilities, leads it to the high- 
est freedom. 

What today one tries to force upon us as a State is mostly 
only the product of deepest human aberration, with untold 
misery as a consequence. 

We National Socialists know that with this opinion we 
stand as revolutionaries in the world of today, and that we 
are branded as such. But our thinking and acting must not 

At this time the fortunes of the Party were at a low ebb, and 
Hitler reflects his discouragement in this appeal to the verdict 
of the future. 



596 MEIN KAMPF 

be determined by the applause or the rejection of our time, 
but by the binding obligation to a truth which we have 
realized. Then we may be convinced that the higher in- 
sight of posterity will not only understand but also affirm 
and ennoble our procedure of today. 



f From this results, for us National Socialists, the measure 
for the evaluation of a State. This value will be a relative 
one from the viewpoint of the individual nationality; an 
absolute one from that of mankind itself. That means, in 
other words : 

The quality of a State cannot be evaluated according to 
the cultural height or the significance of power of this State 
in the frame of the rest of the world, but exclusively according 
to the degree of the quality of this institution with regard to 
the nationality involved in that particular case. 

A State can be called a model if it answers not only to the 
living conditions of the nationality it represents, but if it 
practically keeps this nationality alive by its very existence 
no matter what general cultural importance is due to this 
State formation in the frame of the rest of the world. For 
the task of a State is not to create abilities, but only to 
make the road free for those forces that exist. Therefore, 
reversely, a State can be called bad if, with all cultural height, 
it consecrates the bearer of this culture in its composition to 
doom. For through this it practically destroys the pre- 
sumption for the continuation of this culture, which it has 
not created, but which is the fruit of a culture-creating na- 
tion, safeguarded by the living integration through the 
State. The State, thus, does not represent a content, but a 
form. Therefore, the actual, momentary cultural height of a 
people is not the scale for measuring the quality of the State in 
which it lives. lit is easily understandable that a culturally 
highly endowed people gives a picture of a value higher 



THE STATE 597 

than a negro tribe; nevertheless, the State organism of such 
a people, looked upon according to the fulfillment of its 
purpose, can be worse than that of a negro. Although the 
best State and the best State form are not in a position to 
extract from a people abilities which are simply lacking and 
have never existed, then a bad State is certainly in a posi- 
tion, through destruction of the racial culture-bearer which 
it permits or even promotes, to kill originally existing abili- 
ties. 

Thus the judgment about the quality of a State can 
primarily only be decided by the relative profit which it has 
for a certain nationality and by no means by the importance 
which it has as such in the world. 

This relative judgment can be passed easily and quickly; 
the judgment of the absolute value only with great diffi- 
culty, as this absolute judgment is actually no longer deter- 
mined merely by the State but rather by the quality and the 
height of the nationality in question. &lt; 

If therefore one speaks of a higher mission of the State 
one must never forget that the higher mission rests essen- 
tially in the nationality, for which the State, by the organic 
force of its existence, has only to make the free develop- 
ment possible. 

If therefore we put the question how this S^tate, which we 
Germans need, has to be constituted, then we must first see 
clearly what kind of people it has to integrate and what 
purpose it has to serve. 

Unfortunately, our German nationality is no longer 
based on a racially uniform nucleus. Also, the process of 
the blending of the various primal constituents has not yet 
progressed so far as to permit speaking of a newly formed 
race. On the contrary: the blood-poisoning which affected 
our national body, especially since the Thirty Years' War, 
led not only to a decomposition of our blood but also of our 
eoul. The open frontiers of our fatherland, the dependence 



598 MEIN KAMPF 

upon un-Germanic alien bodies along these frontier dis- 
tricts, but above all the strong current influx of foreign 
blood into the interior of the Reich proper, in consequence 
of its continued renewal does not leave time for an absolute 
melting. It is not a new race that results from the fusion, 
but the racial stocks remain side by side, with the result 
that especially in critical moments when in other cases a 
herd would assemble, the German people run in all direc- 
tions of the winds. The racial elements are situated dif- 
ferently, not only territorially but also in individual cases 
within the same territory. At the side of Nordic people 
there stand Easterners, at the side of Easterners Dinarics, 
at the side of both stand Westerners, and in between stand 
mixtures. This is, on the one hand, of great disadvantage: 
the German people lacks that sure herd instinct which is 
rooted in the unity of the blood and which guards the na- 
tion against ruin especially in dangerous moments, as with 
such peoples all the minor internal differences usually dis- 
appear immediately and the common enemy is confronted 
by the closed front of a uniform herd. In this side by side 
placement of our basic racial elements, which remained un- 
blended, is rooted what with us one calls by the word super- 
individualism. In peaceful times it may sometimes render 
good services, but taken all in all it has deprived us of world 
domination. If, in its historical development, the German 
people had possessed this group unity as it was enjoyed by 
other peoples, then the German Reich would today prob- 
ably be the mistress of this globe. World history would have 

Possibly a reference is made here to American protagonists 
of racial science, notably Lothrop Stoddard and Madison 
Grant. Some of this group had argued that the 'barbarism' 
of the Germans during the War had been due to the fact that 
the best elements of the German population has been annihi- 
lated during the Thirty Years' War. 



THE STATE 599 

taken a different course, and no one would be able to decide 
if in this way there would not have arrived what today so 
many blinded pacifists hope to beg for by moaning and cry- 
ing: A peace, supported not by the palm branches of tearful 
pacifist professional female mourners, but founded by the 
victorious sword of a people of overlords which puts the world 
into the service of a higher culture. 

The fact of the non-existence of a nationality, uniform 
in its blood, has brought untold misery upon us. It has 
given residential towns to many small German potentates, 
but it has bereft the German people of its right of mastery. 
f Even today our people suffers from this inner dismember- 
ment; however, that which brought us misfortune in the 
past and in the present can be our blessing in the future. 
For no matter how detrimental it was on the one hand that 
a complete mixture of our original racial constituents did 
not take place, and that by this the formation of a uniform 
national body was prevented, it was just as fortunate on the 
other hand, that by this at least a part of our blood was 
preserved in purity and escaped racial decline. 

With the complete blending of our original racial ele- 



Manifestly the Germans have tended to break up into groups, 
and most efforts to keep them together have either failed or 
succeeded only in part. Doubtless the major reason for this 
divergence is not racial but religious. In addition, the feudal 
system was outgrown very slowly in Germany, primarily 
because of the constant warfare between Emperors and princes 
in times when modern national states were in the making 
elsewhere. After the War, Germany very nearly disintegrated 
again. Movements favoring an independent Rhineland, an 
independent Silesia, and an independent Bavaria gained con- 
siderable momentum. Many Germans will tell you that if the 
Hitler government should fall, a new break-up of Germany 
would follow. 



600 MEIN KAMPF 

ments a dosed national body would certainly have ensued, 
but, as every racial cross-breeding proves, it would be en- 
dowed with an ability to create a culture inferior to that 
which the highest of the primal components possessed 
originally. This is the blessing of the failure of complete 
mixture: that even today we still have in our German na- 
tional body great stocks of Nordic-Germanic people who 
remain unblended, in whom we may see the most valuable 
treasure for our future. In the clouded time of the ignorance 
of all racial laws, when in completely equal evaluation man 
appeared simply as man, the clarity about the various 
values of the several primal elements might have been lack- 
ing. Today we know that a complete intermixture of the 
stocks of our national body, in consequence of the unity re- 
sulting from this, would perhaps have given us external 
power, but that the highest goal of mankind would not have 
been attained, as the only bearer whom Fate has visibly 
elected for this completion would have perished in the 
general racial mixture of a uniform people. 

But today, from the viewpoint of our knowledge now 
gained, we have to examine and to evaluate what, without 
our contribution, has been prevented by a kind destiny. 

He who speaks of a mission of the German people on this 
earth must know that it can exist only in the formation of a 
State which sees its highest task in the preservation and the 



This is the source of the 'restored German pride* and of 
'the empire that will last a thousand years' well-known to 
students of Hitler's oratory. At last the State has been given a 
task worthy of it. During the medieval time, the German 
Empire's solemn duty was to act as ' God's viceroy on earth* 
and to be a partner in the Divine government of men. Hence- 
forth in the Third Reich its energies are expended on a still 
nobler endeavor the improvement, conservation and ag- 
grandizement of the chosen German race. 



THE STATE 601 

promotion of the most noble elements of our nationality which 
have remained, even of the entire mankind, unharmed. 

By this the State for the first time receives an inner 
higher goal. In the face of the ridiculous slogan of a safe* 
guarding of peace and order for the peaceful possibility of 
mutual cheating, the task of the preservation and the pro- 
motion of a highest humanity which has been presented to 
this world by the benevolence of the Almighty appears a 
truly high mission.^ 

Out of a dead mechanism that claims to exist only for 
its own sake, a living organism has now to be formed with 
the exclusive purpose of serving a higher idea. 

The German Reich, as a State, should include all Germans, 
not only with the task of collecting from the people the most 
valuable stocks of racially primal elements and preserving them, 
but also to lead them, gradually and safely, to a dominating 
position. 



Therefore in the place of a fundamentally stabilized con- 
dition appears a period of fighting. But as everywhere and 
with everything in this world, here too the phrase 'who 
rests rusts' will keep its validity, and further tha&lt;t vic- 
tory is forever contained only in attack. The greater there- 



Prior to 1914, Pan-German organizations circulated maps 
showing what the boundaries of Germany would be when the 
Bismarckian Empire had attained dimensions commensurate 
with the position of the Germanic peoples in Europe. Portions 
of Belgium and Holland were then included. After the annexa- 
tion of Austria in 1938, shop- windows displayed maps setting 
forth the eventual boundaries of the Third Reich. Included 
were Austria, portions of Czechoslovakia, Poland, German 
Switzerland, most of Holland, Alsace-Lorraine and Flemish 
Belgium. 



602 MEIN KAMPF 

by the fighting goal that wte have in mind, and the less the 
understanding of the great masses may be at the moment, 
the most enormous are, according to world history, the suc- 
cesses and the importance of these successes if the goal 
is rightly understood and the fight is carried out with un- 
shakable persistency. 

Of course, for many of our present official State leaders 
it may be more comforting to work for the preservation of a 
given condition than to be compelled to fight for a coming 
one. They will find it much easier to see in the State a 
mechanism which simply exists for preserving its own life, 
as in turn their lives ' belong to the State 9 as they usually 
express themselves. As if anything that sprang out of the 
nationality could logically serve anything but just this na- 
tionality, or as though man could work for something other 
than man. As said before, it is of course easier to see in State 
authority only the formal mechanism of an organization 
rather than the sovereign incorporation of a nation's instinct 
of preserving itself on this earth. For in the one case, for 
these weak minds, the State as well as the Stale authority 
is an end in itself; in the other case, however, it is only the 
powerful weapon in the service of the great eternal struggle 
for existence, a weapon to which then everybody has to sub- 
mit, because it is simply not formally mechanistic, but the 
expression of a common will for preserving life. 

Therefore, in the fight for our new conception which en- 
tirely corresponds to the primal meaning of things, we will 
find only few fighting comrades in a society that is not only 
physically but also mentally antiquated. Only exceptions, 
old men with young hearts and with minds that have re- 
mained fresh, will cpme to us from those strata, but never 
those who see the ultimate meaning of their lives' task in 
the preservation of a given condition. 

We are .faced by the limitless host not so much of the 
deliberately bad people, but of the mentally inert and in- 



THE STATE 603 

different ones, and even of those who are interested in 
preserving the present condition. But just in this seeming 
hopelessness of our enormous struggle lies the greatness of 
our task and also the possibility of success. The battle 
cry which from the very beginning either scares away the 
small minds or soon makes them despair becomes the signal 
for the assembling of real fighting characters. And about 
this one has to see clearly : if in a people a certain amount of 
energy and active force appears united towards one goal and 
thus is taken permanently from the inertia of the great masses, 
this small percentage has risen to be the masters of the whole 
number. World history is made by minorities whenever this 
numerical minority incorporates the majority of will and de- 
termination. 

Therefore, what today may appear a difficulty to many is in 
reality the presumption for our victory. In the very greatness 
and in the difficulties of our task lies the probability that for 
this struggle only the best fighters will be found. In this selec- 
tion, however, lies the guaranty for success. 



t In general even Nature has the habit of making certain 
corrective decisions about the racial purity of mortal beings. 
Nature likes bastards only little. Especially the first prod- 
ucts of such cross-breeding, say in the third, fourth or fifth 
generation, have to suffer bitterly. Not only the importance 
of the originally highest constituent of the cross-breeding is 
taken from them, but they lack, with the deficient unity of 
the blood, also the unity of will power and determination for 
life as a whole. In all critical moments, when the racially 
uniform being makes correct decisions, and consistent de- 
cisions at that, the racially torn will become uncertain, that 
means he will arrive at half measures. Taking both facts 
together, this means not only a certain inferiority of the 
racially unstable as compared with the racially uniform, but 



604 MEIN KAMPF 

in practice also the possibility of a quicker decline. In 
countless cases where the race holds out the bastard breaks down. 
In this must be seen the correction of Nature. Frequently 
it goes even farther. It limits the possibility of propagation. 
By this Nature limits the fertility of remote crossings as a 
whole and thus makes them die off. 

If, for example, a single individual of a certain race were 
to enter into a union with a racially lower individual, the 
result would be, first, a lowering of the standard in itself; 
further it would mean a weakening of the offspring as com- 
pared with the surroundings which remained racially un- 
mixed. With the complete prevention of a further blood 
influx on the part of the highest race, the bastards, with con- 
tinued mutual crossing, would either die off because of 
Nature's wisely reducing their ability of resistance, or in the 
course of thousands of years they would form a new mixture 
in which the original individual elements, in consequence 
of a thousandfold crossing, are completely mixed and no 
longer recognizable. Thus a new nationality with a certain 
herd-like resistibility would have been formed, but com- 
pared with the highest race which helped in forming the 
first cross-breed, it would be considerably reduced in its 
spiritual and cultural importance. But also, in this case, 
the product of the crossing would succumb in the mutual 
struggle for life, as long as there exists a higher race, that 
remained unmixed, as opponent. Any herd-like inner com- 
pleteness of this new national body, formed in the course of 
a thousand years, would nevertheless, in consequence of the 
general lowering of the race standard and the diminishing 
of mental elasticity and creative ability, conditioned by it, 
not suffice for overcoming victoriously the struggle with an 
equally uniform but spiritually and culturally superior race. 
Thus one can establish the following valid conclusion : &lt; 
Every race-crossing leads necessarily sooner or later to the 
decline of the mixed product, as long as the higher part of this 



THE STATE 605 

crossing still exists in some racially pure unity. The danger 
for the mixed product is abolished only in the moment of 
the bastardization of the last higher, racially pure element. 

In this is rooted a slow yet natural process of regeneration 
which gradually eliminates racial poisonings, as long as there 
still exists a basic stock of racially pure elements and no 
further bastardization takes place. 

f Such a process can occur by itself with living beings with 
a strong race instinct who only through special circum- 
stances or some sort of pressure have been thrown from the 
road of normal, racially pure propagation. As soon as this 
pressing situation is over, that part which has remained 
pure will immediately strive again towards mating with 
equals, thus checking a further mixing. Thus the results of 
bastardization step automatically into the background, pro- 
vided their number has not yet increased so boundlessl} 
that a serious resistance on the part of those who have re- 
mained racially pure is no longer in question. 

Man, once he has become devoid of instinct and does not 
recognize the obligation imposed on him by Nature, can in 
general not hope for such a correction on the part of Nature 
until he has replaced his lost instinct by perceptive knowl- 
edge; the latter, now, has to do the necessary work of repair. 



Most of this emanates from Chamberlain, and resembles 
innumerable essays written for Nazi and other anti-Semitic 
journals. Recently German race theorists have qualified and 
rationalized a good deal of it, but the underlying thesis remains 
the same. More attention is now paid to the 'Nordic,' which 
term figures little in Hitler's writings. This 'Nordic' is the 
racial absolute that once found expression in all Germans before 
the process of 'bastardizing 1 began; it is also the point of per- 
fection to which the future will return. Opponents of Hitler 
were wont to derive pleasure from contemplation of the differ- 
ences between the Fuhrer and his racial ideal. 



606 MEIN KAMPF 

But the danger is very great that the man who once has be- 
come blind will tear down the race barriers more and more, 
till finally even the last remainder of his best part is lost. 
Then there remains actually nothing but a uniform mixture, 
such as appears as ideal to the idiotic world reformers of our 
days; but after a short time it would expel ideals from the 
world. However: a great herd could be formed in this way; 
one can brew a herd animal ', but from such a mixture a man as 
culture-bearer and, better still, as culture-founder, will never re- 
sult. With this mankind's mission could be looked upon 
as finished. 

He who does not want the earth to march towards this 
condition has to convert himself to the opinion that it is 
the task of the Germanic States above all to take care 
primarily that in principle a further bastardization is 
checked. 

The generation of our present-day notorious weaklings 
will of course at once cry out against this and will moan and 
complain about infringements on the most sacred human 
rights, etc. No, there is only one most sacred human right, 
and this right is at the same time the most sacred obligation, 
namely: to see to it that the blood is preserved pure, so that by 
the preservation of the best human material a possibility is 
given for a more noble development of these human beings.** 

Thus afolkish State primarily will have to lift marriage out 
of the level of a permanent race degradation in order to give it 
the consecration of that institution which is called upon to be- 
get images of the Lord and not deformities half man and halj 
ape. 

The protest against this from so-called humane reasons 
damnably suits a time which on the one hand gives every 
depraved degenerate the possibility for propagation, but 
which burdens the products of such a union themselves as 
well as their contemporaries with untold misery, while on 
the other hand, the means for preventing births to even the 



THE STATE 607 

healthiest parents are offered for sale in every drug store 
and by every street hawker. Thus in this present State of 
quiet and order, in the eyes of its representatives, this brave 
bourgeois national world, the prevention of the procreative 
faculty of sufferers from syphilis, tuberculosis, heredity 
diseases, of cripples and cretins is a crime, whereas the 
practical prevention of the procreative faculty of millions 
of the best is not looked upon as an evil and does not offend 
the good morals of this hypocritical society, but is rather 
of advantage to the short-sighted inertia of thought. For, 
if this were not the case, one ought at least to ponder 
seriously on the question of how to create the presumptions 
for the feeding and the preservation of those beings who as 
the healthy bearers of our nation will some day have to 
serve the same task with regard to coming generations. 

How boundlessly unideal and ignoble is this entire system! 
One no longer endeavors to breed the best for posterity, but 
one lets things go as they go. That thereby our churches sin 
also against the image of the Lord Whose importance is 
stressed most of all by them, lies entirely in the line of their 
present-day activity that always speaks of the spirit and lets 
its bearer, man, degenerate to the level of the depraved 
proletarian. Then, however, with sheepish faces, one gapes 
at the small effect of the Christian faith in one's own coun- 
try, about the terrible * ungodliness' of this physically 
botched, and therefore naturally also mentally degenerated, 
miserable lot, and one seeks compensation by success with 
Hottentots and Zulu Kafirs, with the blessing of the Church. 
While our European peoples, the Lord be praised and 
thanked, fall into a state of physical and moral leprosy, 
the pious missionary wanders to Central Africa and 
establishes negro missions, till there our 'higher culture' 
will have turned healthy, though primitive and inferior, 
human children into a foul breed of bastards. 

It would correspond to the meaning of the most noble in 



608 MEIN KAMPF 

this world if our two Christian churches, instead of annoy- 
ing the negroes with missions which they neither wish nor 
understand, would teach our European mankind with kind- 
ness but in all earnestness, that with unhealthy parents it is 
a God-pleasing work to take pity on a healthy, poor little 
orphan, in order to give him father and mother, rather 
than putting a sick child into the world which will bring 
itself and the rest of the world only misfortune and suffering. 

The folkish State has to make up for what is today 
neglected in this field in all directions. It has to put the 
race into the center of life in general. It has to care for its 
preservation in purity. It has to make the child the most 
precious possession of a people. It has to take care that only 
the healthy beget children; that there is only one disgrace: to be 
sick and to bring children into the world despite one's own 
deficiencies; but one highest honor: to renounce this. Further, 
on the other hand this has to be looked upon as objectionable: 
to keep healthy children from the nation. Thereby the State has 
to appear as the guardian of a thousand years' future, in the 
face of which the wish and the egoism of the individual appears 
as nothing and has to submit. It has to put the most modern 
medical means at the service of this knowledge. It has to 
declare unfit for propagation everybody who is visibly ill and 
has inherited a disease and it has to carry this out in practice. 
On the other hand, it has to care that the fertility of the healthy 
woman is not limited by the financial mismanagement of 
a State regime which makes children a curse for the parents. 
It has to do away with that foul, nay criminal, indifference 
with which today the social presumptions of a family with 
many children is treated, and in its place it has to consider it- 
self the guardian of this precious blessing of a people. Its care 
belongs more to the child than to the adult. 

He who is not physically and mentally healthy and worthy 
must not perpetuate his misery in the body of his child. Here 
the folkish State has to achieve the most enormous work of 



THE STATE 609 

education. Some day it will appear as a greater deed than the 
most victorious wars of our present bourgeois era. By educa- 
tion it has to teach the individual that it is not a disgrace but 
only a regrettable misfortune to be sick and weakly, but that 
it is a crime and therefore at the same time a disgrace to dis- 
honor this misfortune by one's egoism by burdening it again 
upon an innocent being; that in the face of this it gives proof 
of a nobility of the highest mind and of most admirable 
humaneness if the innocently sick, by renouncing his own child, 
gives his love and tenderness to an unknown, poor young 
descendant of his nationality, whose health promises that one 
day he will become a vigorous member of a powerful com- 
munity. With this work of education the State has to render 
the purely spiritual supplement of its practical activity. 
Without considering understanding or non-understanding, 
approval or disapproval, it has to act in this sense. 
t The prevention of the procreative faculty and possibility 
on the part of physically degenerated and mentally sick 
people, for only six hundred years, would not only free man- 
kind of immeasurable misfortune, but would also contribute 
to a restoration that appears hardly believable today. If 
thus the conscious methodical promotion of the fertility of 
the most healthy bearers of the nationality is realized, the 
result will be a race which, at least at first, will have elimi- 
nated the germs of our present physical, and with it of the 
spiritual, decline. 

For once a people and a State have set out on this way, 
then one will direct one's eyes at increasing the racially 
most valuable nucleus of the people and its very fertility, 
so that finally the entire nationality may share the blessing 
of a high-bred racial treasure. 

The way towards this is above all that the State does not 
leave the settlement of newly won land to chance, but that 
it subjects it to special norms. Specially formed race com- 
missions have to issue a certificate of settlement to the 



610 MEIN KAMPF 

individual; but this is dependent on a certain racial purity, 
to be established. Thus frontier colonies can gradually be 
formed whose inhabitants are exclusively bearers of highest 
racial purity and with this of highest racial efficiency. 
They are a precious national treasure of the entire people; 
their growth must fill every national member with pride 
and joyful confidence, as in them there lies the germ for 
the ultimate great future development of their own people, 
even of mankind.^ 

In the folkish State the folkish view of life has finally to 
succeed in bringing about that nobler era when men see their 
cart no longer in the better breeding of dogs, horses and cats, 
but rather in the uplifting of mankind itself, an era in which 
the one knowingly and silently renounces, and the other gladly 
gives and sacrifices. 

That this is possible must not be denied in a world in 
which hundreds and hundreds of thousands of men volun- 
tarily impose celibacy upon themselves, obliged and bound 
by nothing but a command of the Church. 

Should not the same renunciation be possible if it is 
replaced by the admonition finally to put an end to the 
permanently continuous original sin of a race poisoning and 
to give the Almighty Creator beings as He Himself created 
them? 

Of course, the miserable host of our present petty bour- 
geois will never understand this. They will laugh at it or 
shrug their crooked shoulders and moaningly they will bring 
forth their eternal excuse : 4 That would be very nice in itself, 
but one will never be able to do this ! ' with you, of course, 
one cam no longer do this, your world is not suitable for this. 
You know only one care: your personal lives; and one god: 
your money! However, it is not to you that we appeal, but 
we turn to the great army of those who are so poor that 
their personal lives could not mean the highest fortune of 
the world, to those who do not see the ruling principle of 



THE STATE 611 

their lives in gold but who believe in other gods. Above all 
we turn to the powerful host of our German youth. They 
grow up into a great turn of the time, and what the inertia 
and the indifference of their fathers have sinned will force 
them to fight. German youth will one day be either the 
builder of a new national State or it will, as the last witness, 
experience the complete collapse, the end of the bourgeois 
world. 

For if a generation suffers from faults which it realizes, 
even admits, but nevertheless, as today in our bourgeois 
world, is satisfied with the cheap explanation that nothing 
can be done against it, then such a society is doomed to 
destruction. But the characteristic of our bourgeois world 
is just the fact that it is no longer able to deny the diseases. 
It has to admit that many things are foul and evil, but it no 
longer finds the determination to stand up against the evil, 
to integrate through frantic energy the force of a people of 
sixty or seventy millions and thus to set it up firmly against 
the danger. On the contrary : if this is done elsewhere, then 
one even makes silly remarks about it, and tries to point 
out, at least from a distance, the theoretical impossibility 
of the procedure and to declare success unthinkable. 
Thereby no reason is stupid enough in order to serve as 
a support for their own dwarfishness and their mental 
attitude. If for instance an entire continent today at last 
takes up the fight against liquor poisoning in order to free 
a people from the grip of this devastating vice, then our 



A defense of prohibition as attempted in the United States. 
After the War, many of the folkish groups advocated total 
abstinence. Youth groups having a folkish inlay also frowned 
on tobacco and other luxuries. But though Hitler himset 
neither smokes nor drinks, no pressure of the sort was brought 
on members of the various organizations. Smoking in the 
Ftihrer's presence is not customary, but that practice is said 



612 MEIN KAMPF 

European bourgeois world has no other comment about this 
than an empty stare and headshaking, a superior ridicule 
something that suits this ridiculous society superbly. But 
if nothing helps and if nevertheless in some place in this 
world someone steps up against the sublime, inviolable 
accustomed routine and that even with success, then, as 
pointed out before, at least the latter is doubted and derided, 
whereby one does not refrain from bringing up bourgeois 
moral viewpoints against a struggle that tries to do away 
with the greatest immorality. 

No, we all must not deceive ourselves about this: our 
present bourgeoisie has already become useless for every 
sublime task of humanity, simply because it has no quality, 
and is too evil ; and it is too evil if you will less because 
of willful viciousness, but rather in consequence of an un- 
believable indolence and of everything that springs from 
it. Therefore also those political clubs which are found 
under the collective name of 'bourgeois parties 1 have long 
ceased to be anything but associations of interests of certain 
vocational groups and class estates, and their most sublime 
task is nothing but the best possible egoistic representation 
of their interests. It is obvious that such a political 'bour- 
geois* guild is suitable for anything rather than for fighting; 
but especially if the opposition does not consist of pepper 
sacks [i.e., small tradesmen], but of masses of proletarians 
who have been incited towards the extreme and are de- 
termined for the ultimate. 



If as the State's first task in the service and for the welfare 
of its nationality we recognize the preservation, care and 

to be due to fears of aggravating a lung and throat malady. 
Recently (1938) efforts to revive abstinence from alcohol and 
tobacco have been made by certain Youth Organization 
Leaders- 



THE STATE 613 

development of the racially best elements, it is natural that 
this care has to extend not only to the time of birth of the 
young member of people and race, but that it has to educate 
the young offspring towards becoming a valuable member 
in view of later propagation. 

Just as in general the presumptions for spiritual achieve- 
ments lies in the racial quality of the given human material, 
thus also the individual's education has to focus upon and 
to promote first of all physical health ; for, within the masses, 
a healthy, vigorous spirit will be found only in a healthy 
and powerful body. The fact that geniuses are sometimes 
physically badly formed, even sick beings, is no objection. 
They are the exceptions which as everywhere prove 
the rule. But if the mass of a people consists of physical 
degenerates, then out of this swamp a really great spirit 
will arise only very rarely. His activity will in no case be 
rewarded with great success. The degraded rabble will 
either not understand him at all, or it will be so weakened 
in its will power that it will be unable to follow the soaring 
flight of such an eagle. 

The folkish State, through this realization, has to direct its 
entire education primarily not at pumping in mere knowledge, 
but at the breeding of absolutely healthy bodies. Of secondary 
importance is the training of the mental abilities. But here 
again first of all the development of the character, especially 
the promotion of will power and determination, connected 
with education for joyfully assuming responsibility, and only 
as the last thing, scientific schooling. 

Thereby the folkish State has to start from the presump- 
tion that a man, though scientifically little educated but 
physically healthy, who has a sound, firm character, filled with 
joyful determination and will power, is of greater value to the 
national community than an ingenious weakling. A people 
of scholars, when they are physically degenerated, irresolute 
and cowardly pacifists, will not conquer heaven, nay it will 



614 MEIN KAMPF 

not even be able to assure its existence on this globe. In 
the hard struggle of fate he who knows little succumbs 
most rarely, but always he who draws from his knowledge 
the weakest consequences and puts them into activity in 
the poorest manner. Finally, here also a certain harmony 
must exist. A rotten tody is not in the least made more 
aesthetic by a brilliant mind, nay, highest training of the 
mind could not at all be justified if its bearers were at the 
same time physically degenerated and crippled beings, 
irresolute and weak in character, hesitating and cowardly. 
What makes the Greek ideal of beauty immortal is the 
wonderful combination of the most glorious physical beauty 
with a brilliant mind and the noblest soul. 

If Moltke's words ' In the long run only the efficient one is 
lucky' are valid, then it is certainly so for the relation be- 
tween body and mind : The mind also, if healthy, will as 
a rule and at length only dwell in a healthy body. 

In the folkish State physical training therefore is not the 
concern of the individual, and also not an affair that con- 
Sport is one of the glories of the Third Reich, which has ac- 
complished much to satisfy the Fuhrer's desire for well-trained 
physical specimens in wholesale lots. Strenuous training is 
compulsory for male and female alike. Hiking, gymnastic 
exercises and military sports are vigorously encouraged. 
Nevertheless one must not forget that much the same things 
could have keen said about the Republic. The schools of 
physical education developed by Prussia and Saxony in par- 
ticular were models of their kind. In addition all youth organ- 
izations were ardently Devoted to sports, and most of the 
nationalistic groups fostered military exercises. At present the 
demands of military life predominate to such an extent that 
Germany has made less progress in the more normal sports than 
might have been anticipated. The results obtained at the 
Olympic Games of 1936 must still be chalked up to the credit of 
the Republic which, incidentally, produced Max Schmeling. 



THE STATE 61 S 

cerns primarily the parents and the community only in 
the second or third instance, but a requirement of the self- 
preservation of the nationality, represented and protected 
by the State. Just as the State, as far as the purely scientific 
training is concerned, intervenes even today in the right 
of self-determination of the individual and represents 
towards him the right of the community by subjecting 
the child, without asking for the agreement or non-agree- 
ment of the parents, to compulsory schooling, thus, in 
questions of the nationality's preservation, the national 
State will some day, to a much higher degree, enforce its 
authority against the ignorance or the non-understanding 
of the individual. It has to arrange its educational work in 
such manner that the young bodies, in their earliest child- 
hood, are treated according to the purpose and that they 
receive the necessary steeling for later days. But above 
all it has to care that not a generation of stay-at-homes is 
brought up. 

This work of care and education has to start even with 
the young mother. Just as it became possible, in the course 
of decades of work, to attain aseptic cleanliness during 
delivery and to limit puerperal fever to a few cases, thus it 
must and will be possible, by a thorough training of nurses 
and mothers, to bring about, even during the first years of 
the child, a treatment that serves as the most excellent 
basis for the later development. 

School as such, in a folkish State, has to set apart in- 
finitely more time for physical training. It won't do to 
burden the young brains with a ballast which they retain, 
according to experience, only to a fraction, whereby in most 
cases instead of the essential the unnecessary trifles remain, 
as the young child is not in a position to carry out a sensible 
selection of the material that has been infiltrated in him. 
If today, even in the curriculum of the middle schools, 
only two hours per week are devoted to gymnastics and 



616 MEIN KAMPF 

the participation in it is optional with the individual, not 
compulsory, then this is, compared with the purely intel- 
lectual training, a gross disparity. Not a day should pass 
during which the young man is not trained physically for at 
least one hour in the morning and again in the evening, in 
every kind of sport and gymnastics. Here especially one 
kind of sport must not be forgotten which in the eyes of 
many 'nationals' is considered as brutal and undignified: 
boxing. It is incredible what erroneous opinions are current 
about this in the circles of the 'educated.' That the young 
man learns to fence and then goes about fighting duels is 
looked upon as natural and honorable, but that he boxes is 
supposed to be brutal! Why? There is no sport that, like 
this, promotes the spirit of aggression in the same measure, 
demands determination quick as lightning, educates the 
body for steel-like versatility. If two young people fight 
out a difference of opinion with their fists, it is no more 
brutal than if they do so with a piece of ground iron. Also, 
it is not less noble if one who has been attacked wards off 
his attacker with his fists instead of running away and 
calling for a policeman. But above all, the young and 
healthy boy has to learn to be beaten. This, of course, may 
appear wild in the eyes of our present spiritual fighters. 
But the folkish State has not the task of breeding a colony 
of peaceful aesthetes and physical degenerates. Not in the 
honest petty bourgeois or in the virtuous old maid does it 
see its ideal of humanity, but in the robust incorporation of 
manly forces and in women who in their turn are able to 
bring men into the world. 

Thus the meaning of sports is not only to make the 
individual strong, versatile and bold, but it has also to 
harden him and to teach him how to bear inclemencies. 

If our entire intellectual upper class had not been edu- 
cated so exclusively in teaching refined manners, and if 
instead of this it had learned boxing thoroughly, then 



THE STATE 617 

a German revolution by pimps, deserters and similar rabble 
would never have been possible; for what gave the latter 
its success was not the bold, courageous energy of those 
making the Revolution, but the cowardly, miserable lack of 
determination by those who ruled the State and were 
responsible for it. However, our entire body of intellectual 
leaders had been educated only 'intellectually' and were 
bound to be defenseless in the moment when on the side of 
the opponents, instead of intellectual weapons, the crowbar 
came into action. But all this was possible only because our 
higher schools, in principle, did not educate men, but 
officials, engineers, technicians, chemists, lawyers, jour- 
nalists, and, in order to keep this mentality alive, professors. 

Our intellectual leadership always showed brilliant 
achievements, whereas our leaders in will power remained 
beneath all criticism. 

By education one will certainly not be able to turn one 
who is fundamentally a coward into a courageous man, but 
it is just as certain that a man who in himself is not without 
courage is paralyzed in the development of his qualities if t 
from the very beginning, his physical force and abilities, 
through the faults of his education, are inferior to those of 
the others. How far the conviction of physical efficiency 
promotes one's feeling of courage, even wakens the spirit of 
aggression, can best of all be seen in the army. Here, too, 
it was not fundamentally heroes that existed but the broad 
average. But the superior training of the German soldier in 
peace time inoculated this entire gigantic organism with 
this suggestive confidence in its own superiority to a degree 
which even our enemies had not thought possible. For the 
immortal spirit and the courage of aggression, demonstrated 
by the German armies during the months of the mid- 
summer and fall of 1914 were the result of that untiring 
education which during the long, long years of peace got the 
most incredible achievements out of often weak bodies and 



618 MEIN KAMPF 

thus educated for that self-confidence which was not lost 
even in the horror of the greatest battles. 

It is precisely our German people, that today, broken down, 
lies defenseless against the kicks of the rest of the world, who 
need that suggestive force that lies in self -confidence. But this 
self-confidence has to be instilled into the young fellow citizen 
from childhood on. His entire education and development ha* 
to be directed at giving him the conviction of being absolutely 
superior to the others. With his physical force and skill he has 
again to win the belief in the invincibility of his entire na- 
tionality. For what once led the German army to victory was 
the sum of the confidence which the individual and all in 
common had in their leaders. The confidence in the possibility 
of regaining its freedom is what will restore the German people. 
But this conviction can only be the final product of the same 
feeling of millions of individuals. 

But here we must not deceive ourselves: 

Colossal was the breakdown of our people, but just as 
colossal will be the exertion to end this misery some day. 
He who believes that through our present bourgeois work 
of educating for peace and order our people will receive the 
force to break one day the present world order which means 
our doom, and to throw the shackles of slavery into the 
faces of our enemies, is bitterly wrong. Only by an excess 
of national will power, of thirst for freedom and highest 
passion, can we make up for what we once lacked. 



A frequently quoted passage, this reads like a formal promise 
of war. It should, however, be read as passages about 'heads 
shall roll ' are read. But the emphasis on dynamism is impor- 
tant. The child must not be prepared for a life of ' peace and 
order, 9 but for a part in a crusade in which readiness to fight 
and fanatical enthusiasm for fighting are normal. The enthu- 
siasm has failed to develop appreciably. 



THE STATE 619 

f The clothes of the young people also have to be adapted 
to this purpose. It is truly miserable to be compelled to 
see that our youth also is subject to a lunacy of fashion 
which helped in converting the meaning of the old proverb 
'Kleider machen Lcutc* [clothes make people] into a detri- 
mental one. 

Particularly with youth, clothes have to be put into the 
service of education. The young man who during summer 
walks about in long pipe-like trousers, covered up to the 
neck, loses, merely through his clothes, a stimulant for his 
physical fitness. For ambition, too, and we may as well 
say it, vanity also, have to be applied. Not the vanity in 
beautiful clothes which not everyone is able to buy, but 
the vanity in a beautiful, well-shaped body which everyone 
can help in building up. 

This is of use also for the future. The girl should become 
acquainted with her knight. If today physical beauty were 
not pushed completely into the background by our dandified 
fashionableness, the seduction of hundreds of thousands 
of girls by bow-legged, disgusting Jewish bastards would 
never be possible. Also this is in the interest of the nation, 
that the most beautiful bodies find one another and thus 
help in giving the nation new beauty. 

Today, of course, this would be necessary most of all, 
because the military education is lacking and thus the only 
institution has been eliminated which during peace time 
made up, at least in part, for what was otherwise neglected 
by education. And also there the success was to be sought 
not only in the training of the individual, but in the influeace 
which it exercised on the relationship between the two 
sexes. The young girl preferred the soldier to the civilian.-* 

The folkish State has to carry through and to supervise 
the physical training not only during the official school 
years; it has to care also in post-school days that, as long 
as a boy is in physical development, this development turns 



620 MEIN KAMPF 

into a blessing for him. It is nonsense to believe that with 
the end of school time the State's right for supervision of 
its young citizens could suddenly stop, in order to return 
with the military service. This right is a duty, and as such 
it is permanently existent. The present State that has no 
interest in healthy people has neglected this duty in a 
criminal manner. It lets the present young generation 
degenerate in the streets and in brothels, instead of taking 
them by the leash and training them physically further 
until one day a healthy man and a healthy woman have 
grown out of this. 

In what form the State continues this education is beside 
the point today, but the point is that it should do it and 
seek the ways that are useful for this purpose. The folkish 
State has to consider it a task of State and has to carry out 
through State institutions the physical education of the 
post-school days exactly as the intellectual education. 
Thereby this education, in broad outlines, can be the prepa- 
ration for the future service in the army. Then the army 
no longer has to teach the young men, as hitherto, the 
fundamentals of the most simple drills, nor will it receive 
recruits in the current meaning, but it has to turn the 
young man, who is already physically completely prepared, 
into a soldier. 

In the folkish State, therefore, the army no longer has to 
teach the individual how to walk and to stand, but it has 
to be looked upon as the ultimate and highest school of 
patriotic education. In the army, the young recruit should 
receive the necessary training in arms, but at the same time 
he should be formed further for his future life. But at the 
head of the military education should stand what had to be 
attributed even to the old army as its highest merit: in this 
school the boy should be turned into a man; and in this 
school he should not only learn to obey, but also acquire 
the training for commanding later on. He has to learn to be 



THE STATE 621 

silent, not only when he is blamed justly, but he has also 
to learn, if necessary, to bear injustice in silence. 

Further, strengthened by the confidence in his own force, 
seized by the strength of the commonly experienced esprit 
de corps, he has to gain the conviction of the invincibility of 
his own nationality. 

After terminating the service in the army, he should be 
given two documents : his diploma as a State citizen as a legal 
document which now permits him public activity, and his 
certificate of health as the confirmation of physical health for 
marriage. 



Analogous with the education of the boy, the folkish 
State can also direct the education of the girl from the same 
viewpoints. Here too the main stress should be put on 
physical training, and only after this on the promotion of 
spiritual and last of all, the intellectual values. The goal 
of female education has invariably to be the future mother. 



As of secondary importance the folkish State has to pro- 
mote the modeling of the character in every way. 

It is certain that the essential features of character are 
fundamentally formed previously in the individual: one 
who is egoistic is and remains so once and forever, exactly 
as the idealist, in the bottom of his nature, will always be 
an idealist. But between the completely shaped characters 
there are millions of a type that appear dim and unclear. 
The born criminal will be and remain a criminal; but 
numerous people in whom a certain tendency towards 
criminality exists can still be made valuable members of 
the national community by proper education; while on 
the other hand by bad education vacillating characters 
can grow into really evil elements. 



622 MEIN KAMPF 

How often one complained, during the War, that our 
people knew so little how to be silent! How difficult this 
made it to guard even important secrets from the know- 
ledge of the enemies! But one should ask oneself the 
question : Before the War, what did German education do 
towards training the individual for secrecy? Was not 
unfortunately even in school the little tattle-tale preferred 
to his more discreet comrade? Was not and is not tale- 
telling looked upon as honorable 'frankness,' and discre- 
tion as disgraceful obstinacy? Did one endeavor at all to 
present discretion as a manly valuable virtue? No, in the 
eyes of our present school education these are trifles. But 
these trifles cost the State uncounted millions in court 
expenses, for ninety per cent of all libel suits and similar 
trials arose only from a lack of discretion. Irresponsibly 
dropped remarks are passed on just as light-heartedly, our 
economy is constantly injured by a careless giving away of 
important methods of production, etc., even quiet prepara- 
tions for the defense of the country are made illusory as 
the people have not learned to be silent but spread every- 
thing. But in case of war this inclination to talk can even 
lead to the loss of battles and thus contribute considerably 
to the unfortunate end of a struggle. Here, too, one has 
to be convinced that what one has not practiced during 
youth one cannot exercise during old age. In this category 
belongs also the fact that in principle the teacher, for 
instance, ought not to try to gain information about the 
pranks of silly boys by encouraging evil tale-telling. Youth 
has a State for itself, it faces the grown-ups with a certain 
closed solidarity, and this is natural. The bond of a ten- 
year-old boy to a comrade of the same age is a natural one 
and greater than that to a grown-up person. A boy who 
gives his comrade away exercises treason and thus shows 
a mentality which, grossly expressed and enlarged, corre- 
sponds exactly to that of the traitor to his country. Such 



THE STATE 623 

a boy can in no way be looked upon as a 'good, decent' 
child, but as a boy with few valuable characteristics. To 
the teacher it may be convenient, for the purpose of in- 
creasing his authority, to avail himself of such evil habits, 
but by this the germ of a mentality is planted in the young 
heart which later can have a catastrophic effect. More than 
once the young tattle-tale has become a great scoundrel! 

This should serve as only one example for many. Today 
the conscious development of good and noble character 
qualities at school is equal to naught. This, one day, will 
have to be emphasized in quite a different manner. Loyalty, 
willingness to sacrifice, and silence are virtues which a great 
people urgently needs, and their inculcation by education 
and training in school is more important than many of the 
things which now fill our curriculum. Also the elimination 
by education of tearful complaining, of lamenting, etc., 
belongs in this field. If an education forgets to influence 
even the child to the effect that sufferings and adversities 
have to be borne in silence, it must not be surprised if later, 
in a critical hour, for example when one day the man stands 
at the front, the entire mail service serves the transporta- 
tion of mutual letters of complaints and laments. If in our 
public schools one had instilled into our young people a 
little less knowledge and a little more self-restraint, this 
would have been amply rewarded in the years 1915-18. 

Thus the folkish State, in its work of education, has, 
besides the physical training, to put the greatest emphasis 
on the training of the character. By an education in this 
direction, numerous moral defects, which our present na- 
tional body harbors, can be, if not entirely abolished, at 
least greatly modified. 



Of highest importance is the training of will power and 
determination, as well as the cultivation of joy in taking 
responsibility. 



624 MEIN KAMPF 

If formerly in the army the principle was valid that an 
order is always better than no order, for youth this must 
mean first of all : an answer is always better than no answer. 
The dread shown in giving no answer, out of fear of saying 
something wrong, must be mom humiliating than an incor- 
rectly given answer. Starting from this most primitive 
basis youth should be educated to the effect that it acquires 
the courage for action. 

One has often complained that in the time of November 
and December of 1918 actually all authorities failed, that 
beginning from the monarchs down to the last division com- 
mander nobody was any longer able to summon the energy 
for an independent decision. This terrible fact is the Mene 
tekel [Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin (Aramaic), colloquially 
known as 'the handwriting on the wall'] of our education, 
because in this cruel catastrophe is expressed, in a measure 
expanded to gigantic size, what generally existed in little 
things. It is this lack of will, and not the lack of arms, 
that today makes us incapable of all serious resistance. It 
is ingrained in our entire people, it prevents every decision 
which involves a risk, as though the greatness of an act did 
not lie in the very risk. Without being aware of it, a 
German general succeeded in finding the classical formula 
for this miserable irresoluteness: 'I will act only if I can 
reckon with fifty-one per cent probability of success. 1 In 
this 'fifty-one per cent' lies the tragedy of the German 
collapse; he who first demands of Fate the guaranty of 
success thereby automatically renounces the significance 
of a heroic act. For it lies in the fact that, with the con- 

A reference to General von Lossow, Reichswehr commander 
in Munich during 1923, whom Hitler tried to persuade to au- 
thorize his putsch. Von Lossow said that he would join in such 
a venture only if the chances were ' fifty-one per cent 9 in favor 
of success. 



THE STATE 625 

viction of the mortal danger of a condition, one takes the 
step which can perhaps lead to success. A person suffering 
from cancer, whose death is otherwise certain, need not 
first figure out fifty-one per cent in order to risk an opera- 
tion. And if the latter promises a cure with only half a 
per cent probability, a courageous man will risk it, other- 
wise he should not whimper for his life. 

The epidemic of the present cowardly lack of will power 
and determination is, taken all in all, mainly the result of 
our fundamentally faulty education of youth, the devastat- 
ing effect of which extends into the future life, and which 
finds its final conclusion and its ultimate crown in the lack 
of civil courage of the leading statesmen. 

In the same line falls also the current prevailing coward- 
ice with regard to responsibility. Here, too, the fault lies in 
the education of youth, permeates next the entire public 
life and finds its immortal completion in the parliamentary 
institutions of government. 

Unfortunately, even at school one puts more stress upon 
the 'repenting* confession and the 'contrite abjuration* by 
the little sinner than upon a frank admission. The latter 
even appears to many a public educator of today the most 
visible symptom of an incorrigible depravity, and so many 
a boy, in an incredible manner, is threatened with the gal- 
lows for qualities which would be of priceless value if they 
were the common good of an entire nation. 

As some day the folkish State has to devote its highest atten- 
tion to the education of will and determination, it has to im- 
plant joy in taking responsibility and courage for confession 
into the hearts of the young from their early years of life. Only 
if it recognizes this necessity in its full importance will it 
finally have as a result, after hundreds of years of educa- 
tional work, a national body which will no longer succumb 
to those weaknesses which today have so fatally contributed 
to our decline. 

* 



626 MEIN KAMPF 

The folkish State will be able to take over, with only 
minor changes, the scientific school training, which today is 
actually the be-all and end-all of the State's whole work of 
education. These changes lie in three domains. 

First, the youthful brains must in general not be burdened 
with things 95 per cent of which it does not need and therefore 
forgets again. Especially the curriculum of grammar and 
middle schools presents today a mongrel character; in many 
instances, in the various subjects the material of what has 
to be learned has swollen up to such a degree that only a 
fraction of it remains in the head of the individual pupil 
and only a fraction of this abundance can find application, 
while on the other hand it is not sufficient for the need of 
one who works in a certain field and earns his living therein. 
Let us take for instance the normal State official in the 
thirty-fifth or fortieth year of his life, who graduated from 
a Gymnasium or an Oberrealschule, and let us examine what 
he once painfully crammed into his head at school. How 
little of all that which was then infiltrated is still present ! 
fOf course one will receive the answer: 'Well, the mass of 
material then learned had not only the purpose of supplying 
a great deal of knowledge later, but also that of a training 
of the mental receptiveness, of the thinking ability and 
especially of the memorizing power of the brain.' This is 
partly true. Yet there is the danger that the youthful 
brain is swamped with a flood of impressions which it is 
able to master only in the rarest cases, and the single ele- 
ments of which it neither knows how to sift nor how to eval- 
uate, according to their greater or smaller importance; 
whereby, besides, not the unessential but the essential is 
forgotten and sacrificed in most cases. Thus the main pur- 
pose of this much-learning is again lost; for this purpose 
cannot mean making the brain capable of learning by an 
unmeasured accumulation of material; but giving for the 
future that treasure of knowledge which the individual 



THE STATE 627 

needs and from which, through him, the community will 
benefit. But this becomes illusory if, in consequence of 
the superabundance of the material that was forced upon 
him during youth, man later either no longer possesses this 
material at all, or at least not the essential parts of it. One 
can, for instance, not see why millions of people, in the 
course of the years, have to learn two or three foreign lan- 
guages which thereafter only a fraction of which they can 
use and which therefore the majority of them forget again 
completely, for out of a hundred thousand pupils who, for 
instance, learn French, hardly two thousand will later on 
be able to use it actually, while ninety-eight thousand, 
through their entire further course of life, will no longer be 
in a situation where they can make use of what they have 
learned. During their youth, therefore, they have devoted 
thousands of hours to a matter which later is of no value or 
significance to them. Also the objection that this material 
is part of general education is wrong, as one could defend 
this opinion only if people had at their disposal during their 
entire lives what they had learned. Thus now for the sake 
of two thousand people for whom the knowledge of this 
language is of use, actually ninety-eight thousand have to 
be tortured in vain and to sacrifice valuable time. 

Besides, in this case a language is involved of which one 
cannot even say that it means a training of sharp logical 
thinking, as is perhaps the case with Latin. Therefore it 
would be far more useful if one would impart such a lan- 
guage to the young student only in its general outlines, or 
more correctly expressed, in its inner structure, that means 
to give him the knowledge of the most striking features of 
this language, perhaps introducing him to the principles 
of its grammar, pronunciation, syntax, etc., through model 
examples. This would suffice for general need, and, because 
easier to survey and to remember, it would be more valu- 
able than the present drilling of the entire language, which 



628 MEIN KAMPF 

nevertheless he will not completely command and will 
forget later on. 

In addition, in this way one would avoid the risk that 
from the overwhelming abundance of the material only 
single, haphazard and unconnected fragments would remain 
in his memory, as the young man would be made to learn 
only what is most remarkable, and thus the selection ac- 
cording to value or non-value would have been carried out 
beforehand. 

The general foundation, imparted in this way, would 
suffice for most people anyway, for their future life as well, 
while to the others who actually need this language later on, 
it gives the possibility of building up on it further and of 
devoting themselves to learning it thoroughly according to 
their free choice. 

Thus, in the curriculum, the necessary time is gained for 
physical training as well as for the increased demands in 
the domains previously mentioned. -^ 

A change will have to be made especially in the present 
method of teaching history. There is probably hardly any 
people that learns more history than the German people; 
but there can hardly be a* people that applies it to less ad- 
vantage than our people. If politics is history in the mak- 
ing, then our education in history is condemned by our kind 
of political activity. Here, too, it will not do to complain 
about the wretched results of our political achievements, if 
one is not determined to care for a better education for 
politics. The result of our present teaching in history is, in 
ninety-nine out of a hundred cases, a miserable one. A few 
dates, birth figures and names usually remain, while a 
great, clear line is completely missing. All essentials 
which would really count are not taught at all, but it is left 
to the more or less ingenious disposition of the individual 
to find the inner motives out of the flood of dates, in the 
order of events. One may protest against this bitter state- 



THE STATE 629 

meat as much as one likes; but one has only to read the 
speeches, delivered by our parliamentary gentlemen, during 
the various sessions, on political problems, for instance 
questions of foreign policy; one should consider, in this con- 
nection, that there allegedly at least we have to deal 
with the choice of the German nation, and that in any case 
a great part of these people have warmed the benches of 
our high schools, partly even of our universities, and from 
this one will be able to see just how insufficient the his- 
torical education of these people is. If they had not studied 
history at all, but if they had only a sound instinct, this 
would be much better and of greater benefit to the nation. 
Particularly in history lessons a shortening of the ma- 
terial has to be carried out. The main value lies in recogniz- 
ing the great lines of development. The more the lessons 
are restricted to this, the more it is to be hoped that benefit 
will arise out of this for the individual later on, which, 
summed up, is beneficial also to the community. For one 
does not learn history merely in order to know what has 
been, but one learns history in order to make it a teacher for 
the future and for the continued existence of one's own 
nationality. This is the end, and the history lessons are only 
a means to it. But today here, too, the means have become 
the end, the end itself is completely ignored. One must 
not say that a thorough study of history demands the occu- 
pation with all these details as only out of them a great line 
can be established. To establish this line is the task of the 
particular science in question. The normal average man, 
however, is not a history professor. To him history means 
primarily to render him that amount of historical insight 
which he needs for forming his opinion on the political 
affairs of his nation. He who wants to become a history pro- 
fessor may devote himself thoroughly to this study later on. 
Of course, he will have to deal with all and even the smallest 
details. But for this purpose our present instruction in 



630 MEIN KAMPF 

history cannot be enough ; because it is too vast for the nor- 
mal average man, but much too narrow for the scholar- 
specialist. 

For the rest, it is the task of a folkish State to see to it that 
at last a world history is written in which the race question is 
raised to a predominant position. 



Summing up: the folkish State, therefore, has to give the 
general history lessons a shortened form that comprises all 
that is essential. Beyond this the possibility of a most thor- 
ough, specialized education has to be offered. It is enough 
that the individual receives a general knowledge, kept along 
broad outlines, as a basis, and enjoys a most thorough 
special and individual training only in the field which be- 
comes later that of his life. Hereby the general education 
has to be compulsory in all fields, that of the specialty has 
to be left to the choice of the individual. 

The shortening of the curriculum and of the number of 
hours, brought about in this way, will be of benefit to the 
training of the body, of the character, and of will power and 
determination. 

How little bearing our present school education, espe- 
cially that of the middle schools, has on the vocation of 
the future life, is best proved by the fact that today people 
from three entirely different kinds of schools can come into 
one and the same position. What is of decisive importance 
is actually only the general education and not the infiltrated 
special knowledge. But in instances where as already 
said actually a special knowledge is necessary, it can of 
course not be acquired within the curriculum of our present 
middle schools. 

Some day the folkish State will have to do away with 
such half measures. 



THE STATE 631 

The second change in the scientific curriculum of the 
national State has to be the following: 

It is a characteristic ot our present materialized time 
that our scientific education turns more and more towards 
the subjects of natural science only, namely, mathematics, 
physics, chemistry, etc. No matter how necessary this is 
for a time in which techniques and chemistry dominate in 
daily life and represent its symptoms, at least as far as out- 
wardly recognizable, it is just as dangerous if the general 
education of a nation is always directed exclusively at this. 
On the contrary, this education has always to be an ideal 
one. It has to correspond more to the classic subjects and 
should only offer the foundations of a later training in a 
special field. Otherwise, one renounces forces which are 
still more important for the preservation of the nation than 
any technical or other ability. Especially in history instruc- 
tion one should not let oneself be deterred from studying 
antiquity. Roman history, rightly conceived in very broad 
outlines, is and remains the best teacher not only for today 
but probably for all times. The Hellenic ideal of culture, 
too, should be preserved for us in its exemplary beauty. One 
must not allow the differences of the individual races to tear 
up the greater racial community. The struggle that rages 
today involves very great aims: a culture fights for its 
existence, which combines millenniums and embraces Hel- 
lenism and Germanity together. 

A sharp difference should be made between general edu- 
cation and specialized knowledge. Since the latter, today 
more than ever, threatens to sink into the service of pure 
mammon, general education, at least in its more ideal orien- 
tation, has to be preserved as a counter-balance. Here, too, 
one has continuously to inculcate the principle that industry 
and techniques, trade and professions are able to flourish only 
as loni as an idedlistically disposed national community offers 
the necessary presuppositions. But the latter do not lie in ma- 



632 MEIN KAMPF 

tcrial egoism, but in a joyous readiness to renounce and to 
sacrifice. 



The present education of youth has by and large aimed at 
pumping into the young man that knowledge which he needs 
for his advancement in his future life. This is expressed in 
the following: 'The boy must sometime become a useful 
member of human society.' By this one understands his 
ability to earn some day his daily bread in a decent manner. 
The superficial civic education which goes along with this 
stands on a weak footing from the beginning. As the State 
in itself represents only a form, it is indeed very difficult to 
educate or even to obligate people with regard to the latter. 
A form can break too easily. But the concept ' State ' as 
we have seen does not today possess a clear content. 
Thus there remains nothing but the traditional 'patriotic* 
education. In old Germany its emphasis, frequently little 
intelligent but mostly very stale, lay on an adoration of 
small and smallest potentates whose mass from the begin- 
ning made it necessary to renounce a comprehensive appre- 
ciation of the actually great men of our people. The result, 
therefore, was a very insufficient knowledge of German his- 
tory on the part of our broad masses. Here, too, the great 
line was lacking. 

It is obvious that in such a manner one could not arrive 
at a genuine national enthusiasm. Our education lacked the 
skill to lift out of the historical growth of our people a few 
names and to make them the common property of the en- 
tire German nation, so as to throw an equally unifying 
bond around the entire nation by equal knowledge and 
equal enthusiasm. One did not know how to make the 
really important men of our people appear, in the eyes of 
the present, as outstanding heroes, to concentrate the gen- 
eral attention on them and to create by this a uniform mood. 



THE STATE 633 

In the various subjects one was not able to raise what was 
glorious for the nation above the level of objective presenta- 
tion and to kindle the national pride by such shining exam- 
ples. In those days this would have appeared as bad chau- 
vinism which in this form one would have liked but little. 
Simply dynastic patriotism appeared more agreeable and 
more bearable than the fervent passion of highest national 
pride. The first was always ready to serve, the latter might 
some day become mistress. Monarchic patriotism resulted 
in veterans' clubs; national passion would have been more 
difficult to direct in its way. It is comparable to a thor- 
oughbred horse which does not bear everyone on its back. 
No wonder that one preferred to keep back from such a 
danger. That some day a war would come which through 
drum fire and gas clouds would thoroughly test the inner 
steadfastness of patriotic feeling, nobody seemed to think 
possible. But when the War did come, the lack of highest 
national passion took its most terrible revenge. The gentle- 
men had but little inclination to die for their imperial and 
royal masters, but the 'nation' was unknown to most of 
them. 

Since the revolution has made its entry into Germany and 
with it monarchic patriotism disappeared by itself, the pur- 
pose of history lessons is actually only that of a pure acqui- 
sition of knowledge. For national enthusiasm this State has 



But during the Kapp putsch of 1920, when a Prussian general 
and the commander of a Free Corps unit attempted to over- 
throw the Republic, with the object of restoring Prussian mon- 
archical rule, the workers risked a general strike despite stem 
threats and won. And during the 'passive resistance* which 
followed French invasion of the Ruhr, hundreds of thousands 
of workingmen risked life and bread in the effort to defeat the 
French by sabotage. It may be added that after the Rathenau 
murder the workers were again ready. At no time did they 



634 MEIN KAMPF 

no use, but what it wants it will never get. For just as little 
as there could be dynastic patriotism of ultimate resistibility 
in an era when the principle of nationalities is dominant, 
thus still less could there be republican enthusiasm. For 
about this there ought to be no doubt that with the slogan 
1 For the German Republic ' the German people would not 
remain on the battlefield for four and a half years; least of 
all would those who have created this marvelous structure 
do so. 

Actually, this Republic owes its unharmed existence to the 
readiness, assured everywhere, of voluntarily assuming all 
tributes and signing any renunciation of territory. This 
Republic is liked by the rest of the world ; just as every weak- 
ling is considered more agreeable by those who need him 
than a rough man. True, the very sympathy for just this 
State form implies its devastating criticism. One likes the 
German Republic and lets it live because one could not find 
a better ally for the work of enslavement of our people. It 
is only to this that this glorious formation owes its present 
existence. Therefore it can renounce all really national 
education and be satisfied with the shouting of ' hoch ' by the 
heroes of the Reichsbanner who, by the way, if they had to 
protect this banner with their blood, would run away like 
rabbits. 

The folkish State will have to fight for its existence. It 
will not be able either to preserve or to defend its existence 
by Dawes signatures. But for its existence and its protec- 
tion it will need just what now one believes that one can get 

lack enthusiasm or courage. The issues, however, were nearly 
always so confused, and strife between moderate and radical 
elements inside the Socialist Party so rampant, that the edge 
of their activism was dulled by constant quarreling over minor 
matters. This is doubtless a penalty which every revolutionary 
party must pay when it assumes responsibility for government. 



THE STATE 635 

along without. The more incomparable and valuable form 
and contents will be, the greater will also be the envy and 
the resistance of the opponents. Then the best protection 
will not be represented in its arms, but in its citizens; not 
fortress walls will protect it, but the living wall of men and 
women, filled with highest love for the country and with 
fanatical national enthusiasm. 

As the third point, the following has to be considered in 
connection with scientific education : 

Also in science the folkish State has to see a means for the 
promotion of national pride. Not only world history, but the 
entire culture history must be taught from this viewpoint. An 
inventor must appear great not only as an inventor, but greater 
still as a fellow citizen. The admiration for every great deed 
has to be recast into pride in the fortunate performer of this 
deed as a member of one's own nation. From the vast number of 
all the great names of German history the greatest have to be 
singled out and presented to youth so impressively as to become 
the pillars of an unshakable national sentiment. 

The subjects to be taught must be built up systemati- 
cally according to these viewpoints; education must be 
arranged systematically in such a way as to make the young 
man upon leaving school not half a pacifist, democrat or 
something of that kind, but a genuine German. 

In order to render this national sentiment genuine from 
the beginning and to prevent it from being only pretense, 
as early as during youth an iron principle has to be ham- 
mered into the still pliable heads: He who loves his people 
proves this solely by the sacrifices which he is ready to make for 
it. National sentiment that only seeks profit does not exist. 
Nor is there a nationalism that merely comprises dosses. 
Shouting hurrah proves nothing and gives nobody the right to 
call himself national, if it is not backed by the great, loving care 
for the preservation of a general and sound nationality. A rea- 
son, for pride in one's people exists only after one has no longer 



636 MEIN KAMPF 

to be ashamed of any doss. But a people one-half of which is 
miserable and careworn, or even depraved, gives such a bad 
picture that nobody should feel pride in it. Only if a national- 
ity is sound in all its members, in body and soul, can the joy of 
belonging to it justly grow into that high feeling that we call 
national pride. But only he will feel this highest pride who 
knows the greatness of his nationality. 

f The intimate coupling of nationalism and feeling of social 
justice must be planted in the young heart. Then there will 
some day arise a people of State citizens, bound to one another 
and forged together by a common love and a common pride, 
unshakable and invincible for all times. 

Our time's fear of chauvinism is the sign of its impotence. 
Since it not only lacks but considers disagreeable all seething 
energy, Destiny has not chosen it for a great deed. For the 
greatest changes on this earth would not have been thinkable if 
their driving force, instead of fanatical, even hysterical passion, 
had been only the bourgeois virtues of peace and order. &lt;+ 

It is certain, however, that this world approaches a great 
change. A nd there can be only the sole question whether it turns 
out for the benefit of Aryan mankind or for the profit of the 
eternal Jew. 

Thefolkish State will have to see to it that by a suitable edu- 
cation of youth a mature generation is produced for the ultimate 
and greatest decisions on this globe. 

That people, however, which as the first sets out on this way 
will be victorious. 



Thefolkish State's entire work of education and training has 
some day to find its culmination in branding, through instinct 
and reason, the race sense and race feeling into the hearts and 
brains of the youth with whom it is entrusted. No boy or girl 
must leave school without having been led to the ultimate 
knmvledge of the necessity and the nature of the purity of the 



THE STATE 637 

blood. Thus the assumption is created for the racial founda- 
tions of our nationality and by it, in turn, the safeguarding 
of the presumptions for the future cultural development. 

For all physical and spiritual training would still remain 
useless unless it benefited a human being who is funda- 
mentally ready and determined to preserve himself and his 
kind. 

In the reverse case there would happen what we Germans 
have to deplore greatly even now, without the entire size of 
this tragic misfortune having perhaps been understood so 
far: thai also in future we would remain only cultural fertilizer, 
not only in the meaning of the limited conception of our present 
bourgeois opinion, which sees in the individual lost national 
member only the lost citizen, but in the meaning of the most 
painful realization that then, despite all our knowledge and 
skill, our blood is nevertheless doomed to decline. By mating 
again and again with other races, we may well lift those races 
out of their former cultural level to a higher one, but we sink 
down from our own high level forever. 

For the rest, this education, too, from the racial viewpoint, 
must find its final completion in the military service. A son the 
whole the period of the military service has to be considered the 
conclusion of the normal education of the average German. 



Great as the importance of the kind of physical and spiritual 
education in the folkish State will be, just as important will it 
be for the folkish State to select the right people. Today this 
selection is treated very casually. Generally, it is the 
children of higher placed, momentarily well-to-do parents 
who in turn are deemed worthy of a higher education. 
Hereby questions of talent play a subordinate rdle. Strictly 
speaking a talent can always be evaluated only relatively. 
A peasant boy can have many more talents than a child of 
parents in a position that has been elevated through many 



638 MEIN KAMPF 

generations, although in general knowledge he may be far 
behind the bourgeois child. The greater knowledge of the 
latter has in itself nothing whatsoever to do with greater or 
smaller talent, but it is rooted in the considerably greater 
profusion of impressions which the child, in consequence of 
his many-sided education and richer surroundings of life, 
receives uninterruptedly. If the talented peasant boy had 
also grown up in such surroundings from his early child- 
hood, then his intellectual ability would be quite different. 
Today there is perhaps only one domain in which family 
station is actually less decisive than one's inborn ability: 
the domain of art. Here, where one cannot just ' learn ' and 
where everything has to be originally inborn and is subject 
to a more or less favorable development in the sense of 
wise promotion of the existing abilities, the parents' money 
and property is almost irrelevant. For this reason it is best 
proved in this field that genius is not bound to higher 
spheres of life or even riches. The greatest artists not sel- 
dom come from the poorest houses. And many a little vil- 
lage boy later becomes a much celebrated master. 
f It does not speak for great depth of thinking in our time 
that one does not make Use of such knowledge for the entire 
intellectual life. One thinks that what cannot be denied 
concerning art would not apply to the so-called exact sci- 
ences. One can undoubtedly endow man with definite 
mechanical abilities by education, just as by clever training 
it is possible to teach a poodle the most incredible tricks. 
However, as with this animal training the animal's under- 
standing does not lead from itself to such exercises, the same 
is the case with man. One can also teach man, without con- 
sidering any other talent, certain scientific tricks, but then 
it is exactly the same lifeless, inanimate procedure as with 
the animal. Based on a certain intellectual drill, one can 
cram super-average knowledge into an average man, but 
this remains dead and ultimately unfruitful knowledge. 



THE STATE 639 

The result then is that land of man who is perhaps a living 
dictionary, but who nevertheless fails in the most deplor- 
able manner in all special situations and decisive moments 
of life; he will have to be trained again for every, even the 
most modest demand, but out of himself he will not be able 
to give even the smallest contribution towards a develop- 
ment of mankind. Such a knowledge, acquired by mechan- 
ical training, will at the utmost suffice, in our time, for tak- 
ing over State positions. 

It is a matter of course that in the total sum of a nation's 
population there will be found talents for all kinds of do- 
mains of everyday life. It is a further matter of course that 
the value of knowledge will be the greater the more dead 
knowledge is animated by the adequate talent of the indi- 
vidual. Creative achievements, in general, can arise only if 
ability and knowledge form a union. 

A further example may show how boundlessly today's 
mankind sins in this direction. From time to time it is dem- 
onstrated to the German petty bourgeois in illustrated peri- 
odicals that for the first time here or there a negro has be- 
come a lawyer, teacher, even clergyman, or even a leading 
opera tenor or something of that kind. While the stupid 
bourgeoisie, marveling, takes cognizance of this miraculous 
training, filled with respect for this fabulous result of our 
present educative skill, the Jew knows very slyly how to 
construe from this a new proof of the correctness of his 



What Hitler says here concerning the negro question is 
reiterated in a great deal of Nazi literature. A German official 
once said to an American journalist, who had protested against 
German retreat of the Jew, ' In America you lynch the nigger*. 
We're too cowardly to do as much with the Jews.' 'But,' the 
American objected, 'in America people who lynch negroes are 
sent to jail if they are caught. Here they seem to get all the 
plum*.' 



640 MEIN KAMPF 

theory of the equality of men which he means to instill into 
the nations. It does not dawn upon this depraved bourgeois 
world that here one has actually to do with a sin against all 
reason; that it is a criminal absurdity to train a born half- 
ape until one believes a lawyer has been made of him, while 
millions of members of the highest culture race have to re- 
main in entirely unworthy positions; that it is a sin against 
the will of the eternal Creator to let hundreds and hun- 
dreds of thousands of His most talented beings degenerate 
in the proletarian swamp of today, while Hottentots and 
Zulu Kafirs are trained for intellectual vocations. For it is 
training, exactly as that of the poodle, and not a scientific 
'education.' The same trouble and care, applied to intelli- 
gent races, would fit each individual a thousand times bet- 
ter for the same achievements. 

Unbearable as this condition would be if it ever 
should concern anything but exceptions, it is equally un- 
bearable today where it is not talent and abilities that 
decide for the higher education. Indeed, it is an unbearable 
idea that annually hundreds of thousands of completely 
untalented people are deemed worthy of a higher education, 
while other hundreds of thousands of great talent remain 
without any higher education. The loss the nation suffers 
from this cannot be estimated. If during the past decades 
the wealth of important inventions, especially in North 
America, increased extremely, then it was not in small 
measure due to the fact that there considerably more talent 
from the lowest layers find the possibility of a higher train- 
ing than is the case in Europe. 

For inventing, purely crammed knowledge is not suf- 
ficient, but only knowledge animated by talent. This is 
not evaluated by us today ; the good mark alone is decisive. &lt; 

Here, too, the folkish State will some day have to inter- 
vene by education. Its task is not to preserve the decisive 
influence of an existing social class, but its task is to pick out 



THE STATE 441 

of the sum of all fdhw citizens the most able heads and to brint 
them to office and dignity. It has not only the duty of giving 
the average child a definite education in public schools, but 
also the duty of placing the talent on the tracks on which it 
belongs. Above all it has to consider it its highest task to 
open the doors of the State's institutes of higher learning to 
every talent, no matter from what circles they may come. 
It has to fulfill this task, as only thus out of the stratum of 
representatives of dead knowledge can grow the talented 
leadership of the nation. 

The State has to make provisions in this direction also 
for another reason: our intellectual classes, especially in 
Germany, are so secluded in themselves and so calcified that 
they lack the living connections towards the masses below. 
This takes its revenge in two directions: first, they lack by 

Education has changed radically since 1933. The first 
official Nazi statements on the subject were relatively moder- 
ate. Speaking on May 9, 1933, Dr. Wilhelm Frick, Minister of 
the Interior, told educators that the German school must stress 
the importance of race and the dignity of labor. He advocated 
more intensive physical training, and suggested that those 
who taught it should bear in mind the military virtues. But 
he added that the Nazi government would respect religious 
beliefs, and that the Party's ideal for the training of German 
youth had 'a Christian foundation.' The effects of anti- 
Semitism became more and more pronounced. Jewish children 
were ostracized; some were brutally treated. Gradually the 
universities were closed to Jewish students. Lessons in 
National Socialist ideology began to supplant the regular 
courses in history, and to prove a veritable source of tor- 
ment for dissident children. Today there can be no doubt 
that race hatred is being systematically instilled into the 
young German. The regular schoolbooks are bad enough, but 
'official' supplementary readings are often still more violent. 
An excellent example of these is Der Giftpil* (the Poisonous 



641 MEIN KAMPF 

this the understanding of, and the feeling for, the great 
masses. They have been uprooted from this connection for 
so long a time that they can no longer have the necessary 
psychological understanding for the people. They have 
become estranged from the people. Secondly, however, 
these upper layers lack the necessary will power. For will 
power is always weaker in these secluded intellectual circles 
than in the masses of the primitive people. But God knows 
that we Germans never lacked scientific education ; but all 
the more we lacked will power and determination. The 
more 'intellectual' for example our statesmen were, the 
weaker as a rule were their actual achievements. The poli- 
tical preparation as well as the technical armament for the 
World War were insufficient not for the reason that perhaps 
too unedticated heads ruled our people, but rather that those 

Mushroom), a collection of seventeen stories with illustrations. 
All the tales are pointed up with the inevitable moral that the 
Jew is the 'poisonous mushroom' of the civilized world. 
Fortunately, Jewish children are now segregated, and most of 
them will in all probability be removed from Germany during 
coming years. 

Under the Republic, the great majority of German schools 
had been confessional in character. Protestant groups soon 
began to feel the pressure of the new order. Their Youth 
Organizations were ordered to merge in the Hitler Youth. The 
right to give religious instruction was more and more infringed 
upon; and elections were held to determine whether parents 
preferred the old 'confessional* or the new 'community 1 
schools, under auspices which virtually guaranteed the extinc- 
tion of the first. During 1936 the Synod of Oeynhausen protested 
not only against the restrictions which had been placed upon 
the Church, but asserted that two mutually exclusive views 
of life were fighting for the German school, and added that 
matters had gone so far that teachers who professed to be 
Christians were being discriminated against as 'politically 



THE STATE 643 

ruling were over-educated people, stuffed with knowledge 
and intellect, but bare of any sound instinct and devoid of 
all energy and courage. It was a disaster that our people 
had to fight its struggle for life under the Reichs chancellor- 
ship of a philosophizing weakling. If instead of a Bethmann 
Hollweg we had had a more robust man of the people as a 
leader, the heroic blood of the common grenadier would 
not have been shed in vain. Also, the exaggerated purely 
intellectual high-breeding of our leaders was the best ally 
for the revolutionary November rabble. By neglecting in 
the most wretched manner, the national good with which 
they were entrusted, these very intellectuals created the 
presumption for the success of the others. 

Here the Catholic Church can be looked upon as a model 
example. In the celibacy of its priests roots the compulsion 

unreliable. 1 On May I, 1937, Hitler replied to these and similar 
charges by saying, 'There are some old fools with whom it is 
too late to do anything. But we take the children away from 
them! We educate them to be new German people. When the 
little rascals are ten years old, we take them and form them 
into a community. When they are eighteen, we still do not 
leave them alone.' 

The Concordat signed with the Holy See on July 3, 1933, 
guaranteed the independence of Catholic confessional schools 
throughout the Reich. The concessions made were, indeed, so 
impressive that the Bishops urged the hesitant Vatican to 
sign the agreement. Almost immediately, however, minor 
infractions of the Concordat were reported. The leadership 
of the Hitler youth was given to Baldur von Shirach, who 
professed having no religion save Germany, and 'Party 
medicine man/ Catholic school-teachers, anxious to avoid 
trouble, were caught between the rules governing religious 
instruction and the status of books by Hitler and Rosenberg 
as 'Nazi Bibles. 1 

The campaign to legislate Catholic schools out of existence 



644 MEIN KAMPF 

to draw the future generation of the clergy, instead of from 
its own ranks, again and again from the broad masses of 
the people. But this particular significance of celibacy is 
not recognized by most people. It is the origin of the in- 
credibly vigorous power that inhabits this age-old institu- 
tion. This gigantic host of clerical dignitaries, by uninter- 
ruptedly supplementing itself from the lowest layers of the 
nations, preserves not only its instinctive bond with the 
people's world of sentiment, but it also assures itself of a 
sum of energy and active force which in such a form will for- 
ever be present only in the broad masses of the people. 
From this results the astounding youthfulness of this giant 
organism, its spiritual pliability and its steel-like will power. 
It will be the task of afolkish State to take care by its educa- 
tional arrangements that, by fresh infusion of blood from 



by inducing parents to vote for community schools was soon 
under way. Few of the voters were in a position to withstand 
Party pressure. The Bishop took up the fight, and a series of 
pastoral letters urged all to stand by the Church. Only in 
Westphalia was this effort crowned with a measure of success. 
The sole weapon remaining was religious instruction; and 
during 1937, the authorities began to deprive the clergy of the 
right to teach in the schools. Today the Church has virtually 
lost every educational advantage. It is estimated that more 
than ten thousand teaching sisters have been removed from 
teaching positions, with the result that their impoverished 
communities must disband. Lay instructors in numbers have 
likewise been forced out. In Austria, the collapse of the 
religious educational system was far more rapid. All the old 
private schools, many of them world-renowned, were closed 
by decree; and the system of confessional education assured 
under the older Concordats has been abolished. 

At present religious instruction has practically degenerated 
into the exposition of anti-Semitic and racial doctrine, apothe- 
of the Fiihrer, and studies in the virtues of the * Aryan' 



THE STATE 645 

below, a perpetual renovation of the existing intellectual layers 
takes place. The State has the obligation of selecting with 
utmost care and exactitude, out of the total of fellow citi- 
zens, that human material that is evidently favored by 
Nature and to employ it in the service of the community. 
For the object of the State and State positions is not to 
provide individual classes with a living, but to fulfill the 
tasks allotted to them. But this will only be possible if as 
its bearers, in principle, only able and strong-willed person- 
alities are developed. This is valid not only for all official 
positions, but for the intellectual leadership of the nation 
in all domains in general. In this, too, lies a factor for the 
greatness of a people, that one succeeds in training the most 
able heads for the domains that are congenial to them, and 
in putting them into the service of the people's community. 
// two nations that, generally speaking, are equally well 

soul. National history is taught in accordance with the spirit 
of Mein Kampf. German schools in foreign countries receive 
official literature containing poems such as this by Will Vesper: 

Nun steht um dich, mein Ftihrer, fest dein Volk, 
Und wenn du sprichst, in Cute wie im Griramc, 
so bist du seine gottgewollte Stimme. 
Gestalt und Wille ward in dir das Volk, 
du sein Gesetz. In deinen grossen Planen 
vollendet sich der reinste Traum der Ahnen. 
Die Enkel werden noch in tausend Jahren 
auf deinen Strassen, deinen Stromen fahren. 

About thee stand thy people, oh my Fuhrcr. 
And when, in kindness or in wrath, thou speakest, 
Thou art, by God's decree, the voice this people finds. 
In thee do they both form and will assume 
Thou art the law in them. In thy vast planning 
The fathers' purest dreams are made come true. 
Still in a thousand years our grandchildren 
Down roads of thine will travel, down thy stream*. 



646 MEIN KAMPF 

endowed compete with each other, then that nation will win the 
victory that has its best talents represented in its intellectual 
leadership, and that nation will succumb whose leadership 
represents only one great common food crib for certain estates 
or classes, without consideration of the inborn abilities of the 
individual bearers. 

True, this seems impossible at first sight in our present 
world. One will immediately object that the small son of 
a higher State official for example cannot be expected to 
become, let us say, a craftsman, because some other boy 
whose parents were craftsmen, seems more able. This may 
be true lor today's evaluation of manual work. For this 
reason the folkish State will have to arrive at an attitude 
that is different in principle in regard to the conception of 
work. // will have to break, if necessary throvyh centuries of 
education, with the absurdity of disrespet^^jsical activ- 
ity. In principle, it will have to evaluate ^ne individual, not 
according to his kind of work, but according to the form and 
the quality of his achievements. This may appear monstrous 
to an era to which the most brainless columnist, solely for 
the reason that he works with the pen, is worth more than 
the most intelligent mechanic working with fine metals. 
This wrong evaluation, however, lies not in the nature of 
things, as said before, but has been artificially imposed by 
education and did not formerly exist. The present unnatural 
condition is based on the general symptoms of disease of 
our materialized time. 



More resistance to indoctrination is offered in the universities, 
less by professors than by students. It is too early to estimate 
the losses which the German university has suffered, or to 
speculate upon the probable intellectual future of the new 
ideology. But in addition to the 'non- Aryan' professors and 
instructors who have migrated, at least a hundred 'Aryan 1 
faculty members have been removed. 



THE STATE 647 

Fundamentally, the value of all work is a double one: 
one that is purely material and one that is ideal. The material 
value is based on the importance, that means the material 
importance, of a work for the life of the community. The 
more fellow citizens draw advantage from a certain com- 
pleted achievement, that means, a direct and an indirect 
advantage, the greater must the material value be esti- 
mated. This evaluation finds plastic expression in turn in 
the material reward which the individual receives for his 
work. This purely material value is contrasted to the ideal 
value. This is not based on the importance of the work 
achieved, measured materially, but on its necessity in itself. 
As certainly as the material advantage of an invention may 
be greater than that of an everyday handyman's service, 
just as certainly is the community dependent on this 
smallest service as on that greatest. Materially it may make 
a difference in the evaluation of the advantage of the in- 
dividual work for all, and it can express this in the corre- 
sponding reward ; but ideally it has to establish the equality 
of all in the moment when every individual endeavors to 
do his best in his field, no matter what it may be. It is on 
this that the evaluation of a man must rest, and not on 
the reward. 

Since in a sensible State care must be directed toward 
allotting to the individual an activity that corresponds to 
his abilities, or in other words, toward training the able 
heads for the work that is congenial to them, but as ability 
can fundamentally not be imposed by learning but has to 
be inborn, that means that it is a gift of Nature and not 
man's merit, the general civic appreciation cannot depend 
on the work that has been allotted, so to speak, to the 
individual. For this work comes on account of his birth 
and of the training conditioned by it which he received from 
the community. The evaluation of man must be founded 
on the kind and the manner in which he discharges the work 



648 MEIN KAMPF 

that he has been given by the community. For the activity 
that the individual carries out is not the end of his exist- 
ence, but only a means for it. Rather has he to continue 
his education as a man and to refine himself, but he can do 
so only within the frame of his cultural community which 
must always rest upon the foundation of a State. He must 
contribute his share to the preservation of this foundation. 
The form of this contribution is decided by Nature; it is up 
to him to returii to the national community, by zeal and 
honesty, what it once itself had given to him. He who does 
so earns highest esteem and highest respect. Material 
reward may be granted to one whose achievement bears corre- 
sponding profit for the community; ideal reward, however, 
must lie in the evaluation which every man can claim who 
devotes to the service of his nationality the forces which Nature 
gave him and which the national community developed. But 
then it is no longer a disgrace to be a decent craftsman, but 
it is a disgrace, as an incapable official, to steal the day from 
the Lord and the daily bread from the nation. Then one 
will also consider it a matter of course that a man is not 
allotted tasks to which he is not suited from the beginning. 

Furthermore, such an activity offers the only yardstick for 
the law with regard to the general, equal, legal and civil 
activity. 

The present time is liquidating itself: it introduces general 
suffrage, it talks of equal rights but it does not find a justi- 
fication for them. In the material reward it sees the expres- 
sion of a man's value and by this it smashes the foundation 
of the most noble equality which can at all exist. For equal- 
ity is not based and can never be based upon the achieve- 
ments of the individuals in themselves, but it is possible in 
the form in which everyone fulfills his special obligations. 
Only by this is Nature's chance in the evaluation of man's 
value eliminated and the individual becomes the forger of 
his own significance. 



THE STATE 649 

In the present time, when entire groups of human beings 
know only how to evaluate one another merely according 
to salary classes, one has as already said no under- 
standing for this. But this must not be a reason for us to 
renounce the presentation of our ideas. On the contrary: 
He who wants to cure this time which is intrinsically sick and 
rotten has first of all to have the courage to expose the causes 
of this disease. But this should be the care of the National 
Socialist movement: ignoring all petty bourgeoisism, to col- 
lect out of, and to arrange in, our nationality those forces which 
are capable of being the protagonists of a new view of life. 



Of course one will now raise the objection that in general 
it is difficult to separate the ideal evaluation from the 
material one, that even the diminishing evaluation of physi- 
cal labor is brought about just by its inferior reward. That 
this inferior reward in turn is again the cause of the limita- 
tions of the individual's participation in the cultural 
treasures of his nation. That it is precisely the ideal culture 
of man, which does not necessarily have to have anything 
to do with his activity in itself, that is impaired thereby. 
That the dread of physical labor is all the more founded in 
the fact that in consequence of the lower reward, the cul- 
tural level of the manual laborer is necessarily lowered and 
that by this the justification of a general, lower evaluation 
is given. 

In this lies a good deal of truth. But for this very reason 
one will have to guard in future against a too great differen- 
tiation in salary levels. One should not say that with this 
the achievements will disappear. This would be the most 
sorrowful symptom of the decay of a time if the impulse for 
a higher intellectual achievement were to be found only 
in the higher salary. If this viewpoint had been the only 
decisive one in the world so far, mankind would never have 



650 MEIN KAMPF 

received its greatest scientific and cultural goods. For the 
greatest inventions, the greatest discoveries, the most revo- 
lutionary scientific works, the most glorious monuments of 
human culture have not been given to the world out of 
greed for money. On the contrary their birth not infre- 
quently meant the very renunciation of the worldly happi- 
ness of riches. 

It may be that today gold has become the exclusive ruler 
of life, but man will some day again bow to higher gods. 
Many things may today owe their existence only to the 
longing for money and property, but among them are only 
few the non-existence of which would make mankind poorer. 

This, too, is one of the tasks of our movement that as 
early as today it announces a time which will give to the 
individual what he needs for living, but at that same time 
upholding the principle that man does not live exclusively 
for material enjoyments. This must some day find its 
expression in a wisely limited sliding scale of earnings, which 
in any case will make possible for even the most humble 
honest worker a decent, orderly existence as fellow citizen 
and man. 

One must on no account say that this is an ideal condi- 
tion which, if carried out in practice, the world would not 
bear and would actually never attain. 

We, too, are not so simple as to believe that one could ever 
succeed in bringing about a faultless era. But this does not 
relieve us of the obligation of fighting recognized mistakes, of 
overcoming weaknesses and of striving toward the ideal. Crude 
reality will of itself bring about only too many limitations. 
For that very reason man has to try all the more to serve the 
ultimate aim, and failures must deter him from his intention 
just as little as he can renounce justice merely because the 
latter, too, is liable to make mistakes, and just as little as one 
rejects medicine because there will nevertheless always be 
tickness. 



THE STATE 651 

One should beware of evaluating the force of an ideal too 
little. Those who today become faint-hearted in this regard, 
I would like to remind, in case they once were soldiers, of 
a time the heroism of which was the most overwhelming 
profession of the force of ideal motives. For, what made 
people die at that time was not care for their daily bread, 
but the love of their country, the confidence in its greatness, 
the general feeling for the honor of the nation. And only 
after the German people turned its back on these ideals in 
order to follow the material promises of the Revolution, and 
after it exchanged the gun for the knapsack it came, instead 
of into an earthly heaven, into the purgatory of general 
disdain and not less, of general distress. 

Therefore it is all the more necessary to oppose the cal- 
culating masters of the erstwhile material Republic with the 
faith in an ideal Reich. 



The major features of the Nazi economic program as carried 
out to date were developed in theory by Reichswehr experts 
during the later years of the Republic. After 1923, Hitler 
himself refused to be tied to a program of economic or fiscal 
change, though he continued to concern himself politically 
with the widefelt desire for such a change. The Rcichswekr 
program included three doctrines of the first order of impor- 
tance: (a) autarchy, or a conception of Germany as a State 
relying primarily on its own resources and their sale in the 
domestic market, export being conceived of as a government- 
controlled 'corporation,' the function of which would be to 
finance the purchase of such raw materials as the country 
needed; (b) the regimentation of industry, of labor and in a 
measure of capital, in order to make possible the program of 
rearmament without excessive strain to the structure of the 
national economy; and (c) a policy of controlled inflation, the 
purpose of which would be to increase production with govern- 
ment expenditures, made primarily for purposes indirectly 
beneficial to military efficiency. These ideas were all familiar 



652 MEIN KAMPF 

projects prior to 1933, but were not regarded with official 
favor in Nazi circles, where the dominant mood at that time 
was 'Socialistic/ The magazine Tat was one of the principal 
media for their dissemination, and they had considerable 
support from younger intellectuals. 

In the speech with which Hitler opened the fateful Reichstag 
session of March 21, 1936, certain applications of these ideas 
were offered to the German people as a program of economic 
recovery. At that time his Cabinet still included a number of 
conservatives. Afterward, on the basis of the Enabling Act 
which that session of the Reichstag passed, he proceeded to use 
an authority on which there was no longer any check whatever, 
save possible the moral influence of the aged President, to 
enact the legislation on which the present economic activities 
of Germany are based. The March 2ist address was moderate, 
even conciliatory: pacific intentions were proclaimed; and 
even international industrial warfare was repudiated, when it 
was asserted that the 'exchange of goods' between the people 
of the world remained imperatively necessary. 

The first great 'drive 1 was levied against unemployment, 
which had been a problem since 1929 and which had assumed 
catastrophic dimensions early in 1933. Promised work within 
five years, the great jobless masses were given new hope. By 
the close of 1936, the 'drive 1 had as a matter of fact been won. 
The methods employed were in the main four: control of the 
labor employed by industry every business was told how 
many men to employ, and forbidden to discharge anyone with- 
out permission; stimulation of rural employment by subsidizing 
certain types of peasant labor, by forbidding exodus to the 
industrial centers, and by sending enlisted corps of workers 
out into the country; creation of public works on a scale 
hitherto unknown, and the subsidizing of 'autarchical' indus- 
trial experiments, calculated to assure the production of 
substitutes for raw materials not to be found in Germany (e.g., 
cellulose products, artificial rubber, etc.); and rearmament, 
which soon became the largest German enterprise, absorbing 
37 per cent of the national income and capitalizing upon foreign 
wars and unrest. 



THE STATE 653 

No nation, Soviet Russia included, has ever exercised such 
far-reaching control over labor as has the Nazi regime. The 
'work book' adopted is outwardly similar to that used in 
Italy, but is intrinsically a deed to a place in the most compact 
system of ' managed labor ' in the history of the world. Workers 
can be shifted from their regular jobs to the armament factories 
at will, or sent from city to city; and the penalty for failure to 
comply is joblessness and starvation. In addition, a compulsory 
half-year in the Labor Corps has been decreed, and a similar 
service for women is being planned. If one asks what the 
worker gets as a result, the answer is simple: on the whole, 
poorer pay than formerly, longer hours, and less food and 
clothing. The obtainable diet usually lacks fats; the bread is 
often of poor quality. On the other hand, two things must be 
noted about the average man's reaction. First, the deteriora- 
tion in his standard of living has been so gradual that for the 
most part it has passed unnoticed, and is to some extent com- 
pensated for by the recreational facilities supplied by the 
Arbeitsfront (Labor Front). Second, if the supplies of food 
and other needed things produced in Germany were 20 per 
cent greater, there would be no appreciable hardship; and in 
stressing that fact, the propagandists for the government 
always hold out the hope that improvement will come soon. 

Production has been increased in industries which serve 
the government. But smaller employers, especially those 
engaged in the crafts, have been slowly pushed to the wall 
along with considerable numbers of shopkeepers. Unable to 
bear up under the charges imposed, many of these have now 
joined the working class; and one is left to confront the ironical 
fact that the group which the Nazi movement first set out to 
help is the one which has suffered most. The tendency towards 
industrial centralization is very marked, and is accentuated by 
the financial dependence of the 'autarchic* industries on 
existing big businesses. But all these tendences have nothing 
to do with Nazi theory, which has never had an economic 
doctrine and has none now. What has happened is that the 
job of getting Germany ready for war has involved the adjust- 
ments which have latterly been almost automatically made. 



654 MEIN KAMPF 

A considerable number of laws govern the agricultural labor 
market, many of them having for their purpose the further 
stimulation of crop production. For the peasants the net 
results are: a certain amount of free labor, which is much 
appreciated, and strict crop and price control, which is natu- 
rally far less popular. It has been proved once again by German 
experience that the agricultural problem can be solved if there 
is a dearth of farm produce; but what is not yet clear is who 
pays for the effects of this shortage, and how much is paid. 
Effective crop and price control was begun in Germany during 
1928, but the early measures hardly suggested what is in 
effect now. 

If one adds the numbers of men employed on public works 
and in the army, it is clear that the only term which can apply 
to the picture as a whole is 'totalitarian mobilization.' The 
amenities of life have been relegated to the background; and 
the nation is living through a time which has manifest resem- 
blances to the 'war period* itself. Unquestionably the total 
cost is enormous. If one year of financial depression sufficed to 
wreck the unemployment insurance system erected under the 
Republic, six years of financed employment must have cost a 
staggering sum. 

To date the government has relied upon several sources for 
funds. Taxation has increased very considerably, the levy 
amounting at present to about 26 per cent of the national in- 
come. In addition there are numerous forms of concealed tax- 
ation, disguised for the most part as contributions to Party 
funds. Second, the confiscation of various accumulated funds 
or properties has brought in considerable revenue, the principal 
victims being the organizations built up under the Republic 
(e.g., the trade unions, Catholic religious houses, etc.), the 
Jews and those designated as 'political enemies/ and the 
Austrian State (the gold and foreign exchange accumulated 
under Schuschnigg's regime, and alluded to in his famous 
'fighting speech/ were extracted from the banks and shipped 
off to Berlin). In addition the government profited enor- 
mously by enforcing a moratorium on German public and pri- 
vate indebtedness, though the resultant drying up of its credit 



THE STATE 655 

abroad has naturally offset those gains. Finally, some capital 
entered the country, especially during 1934-35. 

These measures have not been found adequate. The progress 
of inflation has been relatively slow, but all the more relentless 
for that. Levies have been made on the banks in the form of 
subscriptions to government loans, for which there is virtually 
no market. A vast secret debt, variously estimated by foreign 
observers, must be added to the huge published total deficit. 
The amount of currency in circulation has been increased, so 
that the gold coverage is purely hypothetical. Nevertheless 
the situation is by no means hopeless. Much depends upon 
the extent to which the resources of private industry are 
tapped in the future. 

One may conclude from all this that Germany also has not 
solved the riddle of putting labor back on the pay-rolls of 
private industry. In this respect the British government 
appears to have done far better, as a result of its policy of 
undertaking rearmament 'in a business way.' But no other 
country in the world, save the United States, could afford 
to pay the price which the British system entails. Nor are 
the figures for employment recovery in the United States 
from the low levels of 1932 very much less impressive than 
those of Germany, if one takes into account the military 
organizations of the two countries. It may be argued, to be 
sure, that the resources of the United States are far greater 
than are those of Germany. Cf . The London Economist and the 
Haagsche Post. 

For a brief survey of German labor experience, cf. 'Labor 
under Fascism/ by Arthur Feiler, in Survey Graphic (February, 



CHAPTER III 

SUBJECTS AND CITIZENS 
OF THE STATE 



IN GENERAL, the formation that today is wrongly called 
the State knows only two kinds of people : State citizens 
and aliens. State citizens are all those who either by 
birth or by later naturalization hold citizenship ; aliens are 
all those who enjoy the same right in another State. In 
between there are, further, comet-like apparitions: the 
so-called State-less. They are people who have the honor 
of belonging to none of the present States, that is, they hold 
citizenship nowhere. 

Citizenship today is acquired, as already said, primarily 
through birth within the frontiers of a State. Thereby race 
or nationality play no rdle whatsoever. Thus a negro, who 
formerly lived in the German protectorates and who now 
has his domicile in Germany, in the person of his child now 
puts into the world a 'German citizen.' In the same way, 
the child of any Jew, Pole, African or Asiatic can without 
further ado be declared a German citizen. 

Apart from becoming a citizen through birth, there is 
the possibility of acquiring citizenship later. This is con- 
nected with certain requisites, for example that the candi- 
date in question if possible is not a burglar or a pimp; that 
he is further politically unobjectionable, that means that he 



SUBJECTS AND CITIZENS OF THE STATE 657 

is a harmless political idiot; and that finally he is not a 
public charge for his new home that makes him a citizen. 
By this of course one means in this materialistic era only a 
financial charge. It is even looked upon as an expeditious 
recommendation to present a supposedly prosperous future 
taxpayer, in order to speed up the acquisition of the 
present citizenship. 

Racial objections play no r&amp;le whatsoever in this. 

The entire procedure of the acquisition of citizenship is 
not carried out much differently from admission to an 
automobile club, for instance. fThe man sends in his ap- 
plication, this is examined and passed upon, and one day it 
is brought to his attention by a handbill that now he has 
become a State citizen, whereby this is even clad in a witty 
and funny form. Namely, the former Zulu Kafir in question 
is informed 'You have hereby become a German!' 

Indeed, this magic trick is performed by a modern State 
president. What the heavens could not accomplish is 
carried out by such an official Theophrastus Paracelsus at 
the drop of a hat. A simple stroke of the pen, and a Mon- 
golian Wenceslaus has suddenly become a genuine 'German/ 

But not only that one does not care in the least as to 
the race of such a new citizen, one does not even pay at- 
tention to his physical health. No matter how much such a 
fellow may be eaten up by syphilis, he is nevertheless 
highly welcome to the present State as a citizen, provided, 
as already mentioned, he does not signify a financial burden 
and a political danger. 

Thus every year these formations, called States, take in 
poisonous elements which they are hardly able to overcome. 

The State citizen himself is distinguished from the alien 
by the fact that he is given free access to all public offices, 
that perhaps he may have to discharge his military duty 
and that, in turn for this, he can further take an active or a 
passive part in elections. On the whole this is all. For the 



651 MEIN KAMPF 

protection of personal rights and of personal liberty is also 
enjoyed by the alien, frequently more so; this is the case at 
least in our present German Republic.-* 

I know that one does not like to hear all this; but there 
exists hardly anything that is more thoughtless, even more 
stupid than our present State citizenship law. There is at 
present one State where at least feeble attempts of a better 
conception are perceptible. This is of course not our 
German model republic, but the American Union where one 
endeavors to consult reason at least partially. The Ameri- 
can Union, by principally refusing immigration to elements 
with poor health, and even simply excluding certain races 
from naturalization, acknowledges by slow beginnings an 
attitude which is peculiar to the national State conception. 

Thefolkish State divides its inhabitants into three classes : 
State citizens, State subjects, and aliens. 

In principle, only birth confers the status of subject. 
Being a State subject as such does not entitle one to hold 
public offices, to exercise political activity in the sense of 
participation in elections, be it actively or passively. In 
principle, every State subject's race and nationality have to 
be ascertained. Every State subject is free at any time to 
abandon his status and to become a State citizen in that 
country the nationality of which corresponds to his own. 
The alien is distinguished from the State subject only by 
the fact that he is a State subject of an alien State. 

The young State subject of German nationality is 
obliged to undergo the school training prescribed to every 
German. By this he subjects himself to be educated to 
become a fellow citizen, conscious of his race and nation. 
Later he has to undergo the physical exercises further pre- 
scribed by the State, and finally he joins the army. The 
training in the army is a general one; it has to comprise 
every German and to educate him for the range of military 
activities for which he can be used according to his physical 



SUBJECTS AND CITIZENS OF THE STATE 659 

and mental abilities* Thereupon the irreproachably healthy 
young man, after discharging his military duty, is in the 
most solemn manner given the State citizenship. It is the 
most valuable document for his entire earthly life. With 
this he enters upon all the rights of the State citizen and 
takes part in all its advantages. For the State has to draw 
a sharp distinction between those who as national members 
are cause and bearers of its existence and its greatness, and 
those who only as 'earning 1 elements make their domicile 
within the State. 

The bestowal of the State citizen certificate should be 
combined with the solemn oath to the national community 
and the State. This certificate must signify a bond that 
bridges all cleavages and unites all. It must be a greater 
honor to be a citizen of this Reich as a street cleaner, than to be 
a king in a foreign State. 

The State citizen, as compared with the alien, is privileged. 
He is the master of the Reich. But this higher dignity also 
involves obligations. One without honor or character, the 
common criminal, the traitor to the country, etc., can at any 
time be deprived of this honor. By this he becomes a State 
subject again. 

The German girl is State subject and only becomes a 
State citizen when she marries. But citizenship can be 
conferred also on those female German State subjects who 
are active in economic life. 

Abrogation of the right of citizenship has played a part in 
German history since 1933. More than five thousand exiles 
have been declared non-citizens. The number is steadily 
increasing. Immigration conditions throughout the world 
make such disenfranchisement a hardship. Conversely the 
idea of attributing real importance to citizenship is interesting. 



CHAPTER IV 

PERSONALITY AND THE CONCEP- 
TION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 



IF THE folkish and National Socialist State sees its main 
task in educating and preserving the bearer of the State, 
it is not enough to promote the racial elements as such, to 
educate them thereafter and finally to train them for practi- 
cal life, but it is necessary that it bring its own organiza- 
tion into harmony with this task. 

It would be a folly to appraise man's value according to 
his race, that means to declare war against the Marxist 
viewpoint, Man is equal to man, if on the other hand, one is 
nevertheless not determined to draw the ultimate conse- 
quences from this. The ultimate consequence of the recogni- 
tion of the importance of the blood, that means the racial 
basis in general, is, however, the transmission of this evalua- 
tion to the individual person. Just as in general I have to 
evaluate the nations differently on the basis of the race 
to which they belong, thus also the individuals within a 
national community. The statement that a people is not 
equal to a people is then transmitted to the individual 
within a national community in the sense that a head can- 
not be equal to a head, because here too the elements of 
the blood may be the same, in great lines, but in individ- 
ual cases are nevertheless subject to thousandfold, most 
minute differentiations. 



CONCEPTION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 661 

t The first consequence of this realization is at the same 
time, I would say, the cruder one, that is, the attempt to 
promote those racial elements that have been recognized as 
racially most valuable within the national community and 
to care for their special increase. 

This task is cruder for the reason that one can recognize, 
and solve it almost mechanically. It is more difficult, 
however, to recognize, in the community of all, those heads 
that are mentally and ideally most valuable indeed, and to 
give them that influence which not only is due these superior 
minds, but which above all is beneficial to the nation. 
This sieving according to ability and efficiency cannot be 
carried out mechanically, but it is a work that is done 
uninterruptedly by the daily struggle for life. 

A view of life which, by rejecting the democratic mass idea, 
endeavors to give this world to the best people, that means to 
the most superior men, has logically to obey the same aristo- 
cratic principle also within this people and has to guarantee 
leadership and highest influence within the respective people 
to the best heads. With this it does not build up on the idea of 
the majority, but on that of the personality.^ 

He who believes today that a National Socialist folkish 
State can be distinguished from other States perhaps purely 
mechanically by a better construction of its economic life, 
that means by a better balance of richness and poverty or 
by granting a greater share in deciding on the economic 



This reasoning is the spirit of Fascism. Ludwig Bernhard 
has pointed out that the ideas in this chapter parallel those 
presented by Pisenti in an address to the Italian Chamber of 
Deputies in 1926. 'Personality* means, more succinctly 
defined, 'dictatorship. 1 Cf. Krisis: ein politisches Manifest 
(Weimar, 1932). A comparison with the ideas of Pareto would 
likewise be interesting, though there is little to indicate thai 
Pareto was read in Nazi circles. 



662 MEIN KAMPF 

process to a larger part of the population, or by a juster 
payment for work, by elimination or too great differences in 
wages, has become stuck in the most superficial aspect of 
the matter and has not the faintest idea of what we call a 
view of life. All that has just been described does not offer 
the least guaranty for permanency and even far less for a 
claim on greatness. A people that would not go beyond 
these merely exterior reforms would not in the least receive 
by this a guaranty for its victory in the general struggle of 
the nations. A movement that sees the substance of its 
mission only in such a generally balancing, and certainly 
just, development will in reality not bring about a powerful 
and genuine, because deep-going, reform of the existing 
conditions, as its entire activity gets ultimately stuck in 
mere superficialities, without giving the people that inner 
preparedness which makes it finally overcome, I almost 
want to say with compelling security, those weaknesses 
from which we have to suffer today. 

In order to understand this more easily it is perhaps 
expedient to cast once more a glance at the real origins and 
causes of the development of human culture. 

The first step which visibly distinguished man from the 
animal was that towards invention. Invention itself is 
originally based upon the finding of tricks and ruses the use 
of which makes the struggle for life with other weapons 
easier and sometimes alone makes it come out favorably. 
These most primitive inventions do not yet allow the 
personality to become clearly visible, because they become 
conscious to the later, or rather to the present human 
spectator, only as a mass phenomenon. Certain tricks and 
sly measures which man is able to observe, for instance, in 
the animal, catch his eye only summarily, and as he cannot 
ascertain or examine their origin any more, he helps himself 
simply by calling such incidents 'instinctive 9 ones. 

In our case, however, the latter word does not mean 



CONCEPTION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 663 

anything. For he who believes in a higher development of 
living beings has to admit that any demonstration of their 
urge for living and fighting must once have had a begin- 
ning; that one individual will have started with this, and 
that such a procedure has repeated itself more and more 
often and has spread more and more, till finally it passed 
into the subconscious mind of all members of a certain 
species, and then appeared in the form of instinct. 

One will understand and believe this more easily with 
man himself. His first intelligent measures in the fight with 
other animals have certainly been, according to their 
origin, acts of certain particularly able individuals. Here, 
too, personality undoubtedly was once motive for decisions 
and executions which were later adopted as matters of 
course by entire mankind. Exactly as any military matter 
of fact, which today has become the basis of all strategy, 
primarily owes its origin to some individual head and be- 
came completely natural and generally valid only in the 
course of many, perhaps even thousands of years. 

Man supplements this first invention by a second: he 
learns to put other things, and also ether living beings, into 
the service of his own struggle for life; and with this starts 
man's general activity of inventing, which today is gener- 
ally visible to all. These material inventions which start 
with using stone as a weapon, which lead to taming animals, 
which give man fire by artificial production, and so on to 
the many-sided and astounding inventions of our days make 
us recognize the individual as the bearer of such creations 
the more clearly the nearer the various inventions lie to 
our time or the more important and incisive they are. In 
any case we know: the material inventions we see before us 
are all the results of the creative energy and ability of the 
individual person. All these inventions ultimately help in 
lifting man from the level of the animal world more and 
more, indeed, in finally removing him from it. Thus they 



664 MEIN KAMPF 

fundamentally serve the permanent process of man's be- 
coming a higher being. But even what once, as the most 
simple ruse, helped man in the primeval forest make his 
struggle for life easier today in the form of most intelligent 
scientific findings helps in alleviating mankind's struggle for 
its present existence and in forging its weapons for the 
battles of the future. All human thinking and inventing, 
in its ultimate effects, serves first man's struggle for life on 
this planet, even though the so-called material profit of an 
invention or a discovery or of a deep scientific insight into 
the essence of things is not visible at the moment. All these 
facts, together, by helping in lifting man more and more out 
of the frame of the living beings that surround him, 
strengthen and fortify his position in such a way that in 
every respect he turns out to be the dominating creature on 
this earth. 

Thus all inventions are the result of the creative ability 
of some person. All these persons themselves, whether 
willingly or unwillingly, are more or less great benefactors 
to all men. Later on their activity gives to millions, even 
billions of human beings aids for alleviating the execution 
of their struggle for life. 

If in the origin of the present material culture we see 
always individual persons as inventors who supplement one 
another mutually and who build upon one another, the same 
is the case with the exercise and the execution of the things 
thought up and discovered by the inventors. For also all 
procedures of production, according to their origin, have 
in turn to be identified with inventions and thus to be 
considered dependent on the individual. Also the purely 
theoretical work of thinking which in individual instances 
cannot even be measured but which is nevertheless the pre- 
sumption for all further material inventions, appears again 
as the exclusive produce of the individual person. Not the 
masses invent and not the majority organizes or thinks, 
but all in all only the individual, the person. 



CONCEPTION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 665 

A human community appears well organized only if it 
makes the work of these creative forces easier in the most 
complying manner and applies them for the profit of the 
community. The most valuable thing in the invention 
itself, no matter whether it lies in the material world or in 
that of thought, is at first the inventor as a person. To 
employ him profitably for the community is the first and 
the highest task of the organization of the national com- 
munity. Indeed, the organization itself has to be only an 
execution of this principle. Only with this is it freed from 
the curse of mechanism and becomes something living. 
Organization in itself has to be the incorporation of the en- 
deavor of putting the heads above the masses and of subjecting 
the masses to the heads. 

Organization, therefore, must not only not prevent the 
heads from emerging from the masses, but on the contrary, 
by the nature of its own being it has to make this possible 
and to facilitate it in the highest degree. Thereby it has to 
start from the principle that for humanity blessing has 
never lain in the masses, but in its creative heads who 
therefore in reality have to be looked upon as the bene- 
factors of mankind. It is in the interest of all to safeguard 
their most decisive influence and to facilitate their activity. 
Certainly, this interest is not satisfied and is not served by 
the rule of the masses who are either unable to think or are 
inefficient, in any case not inspired, but solely by the leader- 
ship of those whom Nature has endowed with special gifts. 

The selection of these heads is carried out above all, as 
mentioned before, by the hard struggle for life. Many 
break and perish, thus proving that they are not chosen for 
the ultimate, and only a few appear finally as selected. 
In the fields of thinking, of artistic creation, even of econ- 
omy, this process of selection still takes place today, though 
especially in the latter it is exposed to a serious handicap. 
State administration and the power of the nation, as in- 



666 MEIN KAMPF 

oorporated in the organized army, are equally dominated 
by this idea. Here in all cases the idea of the personality 
is still dominant, the authority of the latter towards below 
and the responsibility towards the higher person above. 
Political life alone has today completely turned away from 
this most natural principle. While the entire human culture 
is merely the result of the creative activity of the individual, 
the principle of the value of the majority makes its appearance 
a the decisive principle in the entire and above all in 
the highest leadership of the national community, and 
from there downward it begins gradually to poison the 
entire life, that means in reality to dissolve it. Also the 
destructive effect of Judaism's activity in other national 
bodies must basically be attributed only to its eternal at- 
tempts at undermining the importance of the individual 
in its host nations and to put the masses in its place. 
Thereby, however, in the place of the organizing principle 
of the Aryan mankind steps the destructive one of the Jew. 
By this he becomes the 'ferment of decomposition 1 of 
nations and races and, in a wider sense, the dissolver of 
human culture. 

Marxism, indeed, presents itself as the perfection of the 
Jew's attempt at excluding the overwhelming importance 
of the personality in all domains of human life and of re- 
placing it by the number of the masses. To this corresponds 



Marxism, by advocating collectivism, did not propose the 
abrogation of the person, in the commonly accepted sense. 
But, akin in this respect to all democratic theories, it did 
deny to the 'genius' the right to dominate others and to make 
them serve his purpose. Plato had criticized similar views, on 
the ground that thus society was estranged from the leadership 
of the intellectual. Hitler, for his part, would like to have both 
'democracy' and the 'genius/ and finds them co-ordinated in 
the army-state. Inside the army soldiers do not ask what their 



CONCEPTION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 667 

politically the parliamentary form of government which, 
from the smallest germ cell of the community to the highest 
leadership of the entire Reich, we see so disastrously effec- 
tive, and economically the system of a labor union move- 
ment that does not actually serve the interests of the 
employee but exclusively the destructive intentions of the 
international world Jew. In the same measure in which 
economy is deprived of the effect of the principle of person- 
ality and, instead, is exposed to the influences and effects of 
the masses, it is bound to lose efficiency, serving all and 
valuable for all, and will gradually fall into a definite re- 
gression. All the workshop organizations which, instead of 
representing the interests of the employees, try to win 
influence on production itself, serve the same destructive 
purpose. By impairing the collective achievement, they 



rights are, or insist upon being granted more privileges. They 
obey a 'leader/ who in turn is obligated to look out for his men. 
If (Hitler has argued) a similar relationship can be introduced 
into civil and economic life, there would come to be a 'totali- 
tarian army/ Many Nazi orators have insisted during recent 
years that Germany is the only true 'democracy/ By this 
they mean that no ' class ' differences exist, the sole distinctions 
being 'personal* i.e., those between 'leader' and 'follow- 
ers/ But one may object that the mere act of changing ' work- 
ers ' into 'privates' accentuates rather than destroys class 
distinctions. Nevertheless the fact does remain that the 
industrial or business leader in a ' totalitarian army ' retains few 
absolute rights. He, too, is subordinate. 

The Betriebsrat (Industrial Council) was established by law 
in 1919 as a sop to those worker groups who clung to the theory 
of government by Workers and Soldiers' Councils. It pro- 
vided for the creation in every industrial plant of a workers' 
group having specified powers of representation in disputes 
concerning labor conditions. 



668 MEIN KAMPF 

actually harm the individual. For the members of a national 
body cannot be satisfied in the long run, by mere theoretical 
phrases, but only by the goods of everyday life, that fall 
to the share of the individual, and further by the ensuing 
conviction that a national community, in its collective 
achievements, guards the interests of the individual. 

It makes further no difference whether Marxism, based 
on its mass theory, might appear able to take over and con- 
tinue the present economy. Criticism about the correctness 
or the incorrectness of this principle is not decided by the 
proof that this principle is able to administer what exists 
for the future, but exclusively by the proof that it itself 
can create such a culture. Marxism may take over the 
present economy a thousand times and let it work on under 
its leadership, but even a success of this activity would not 
prove anything in the face of the fact that it would be 
unable, by application of its principles, to create itself what 
today it takes over as finished. 

Marxism has given the practical proof of this. Not only 
that nowhere was Marxism able to found a culture or even 
an economy creatively, it was actually not even in a posi- 
tion to continue those that existed in line with its prin- 
ciples, but after the shortest time, by way of concessions, 
it had to come back to the ideas of the principle of person- 
ality, exactly as in its own organization it cannot do with- 
out these principles. 

Indeed, what must distinguish the folkish view of life from 
that of Marxism in principle, is that it not only recognizes 
the value of the race, but by this also the importance of the 
person and therefore makes the individual the pillar of its 
entire edifice. These are the supporting factors of its whole 
conception of life. 

If especially the National Socialist movement were not 
to understand the basic significance of this fundamental 
knowledge, but instead should merely tamper with the 



CONCEPTION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 669 

outside of the present State or even consider the mass view- 
point as its own, then it would actually only represent a 
competitive party of Marxism; it would not have then the 
right to call itself a view of life. If the social program of the 
movement consisted solely of pushing aside the personality 
and to put the masses in its place, then National Socialism 
itself could be said to be infected by the poison of Marxism, 
as is the case with our bourgeois party world. 

The folkish State has to care for the welfare of its citizens 
by acknowledging the significance of the value of the person 
in all and everything and thus introducing in all domains 
that highest degree of productive efficiency which grants 
the individual also the highest degree of participation. 

The folkish State, therefore, has to free the entire leader- 
ship especially the highest, that means the political 
leadership from the parliamentary principle of the deci- 
sion by majority, that means decision by the masses, in 
order to establish firmly in its place the right of the person. 

From this results the following conclusion: 

The best State constitution and State form is that which, 
with the most natural certainty, brings the best heads of the 
national community to leading importance and to leading 
influence. 

But just as in economic life the able personalities cannot 
be determined from above, but have to wrestle through 
for themselves, and exactly as here from the smallest shop 
up to the greatest enterprise, infinite training is given by 
itself and only life makes the necessary examinations, thus 
of course the political heads too cannot suddenly be 'dis- 
covered.' Geniuses of an extraordinary kind do not admit 
consideration of the normal mankind. 

The State in its organization, beginning with the smallest 
cell of the community up to the highest leadership of the 
entire Reich, must be built upon the principle of personality. 

There must be no decisions by majority, but only re- 



670 MEIN KAMPF 

sponsible persons, and the word 'council' is once more 
reduced to its original meaning. At every man's side there 
stand councillors, indeed, but one man decides. 
f The principle which once made the Prussian army the 
most marvelous instrument of the German people has to 
be some day in a transformed meaning the principle of the 
construction of our whole State constitution: authority of 
every leader towards below and responsibility towards above. 

Even then one will not be able to do without those cor- 
porations which today we call parliaments. Their council- 
lors will then actually give counsel, but responsibility can 
and must be borne always only by one man and thus he 
alone can and must have the authority and right of com- 
mand. 

Parliaments in themselves are necessary, because it is 
above all in them that the heads to whom one can later 
allot special responsible tasks have the chance to raise 
themselves gradually. 

This gives the following picture : 

The folkish State, from the community up to the leader- 
ship of the Reich, has no representative body which decides 
by majority, but only bodies of councils who stand at the 
side of the respective elected leader, receiving their share of 
work from him, so that, as the circumstances require, they 
in turn have to assume absolute responsibility in certain 



This is 'Prussian Socialism/ of which there were many 
varying conceptions prior to 1933. Hitler derives relatively 
little of his ideology from Spengler or Moeller van den Bruck in 
this instance. The idea of a 'parliament* is borrowed in part 
from Mussolini, and in part from the conception of the general 
staff entertained by Prussian generals like Gneisenau and 
Moltke. Today the German 'Reichstag* is a purely passive 
organization. The true 'parliaments' are the cabinet and the 
inner Party council 



CONCEPTION OF THE NATIONAL STATE 671 

domains, exactly as on a large scale has the leader himself 
or the head of the respective corporation.-^ 

The folkish State, in principle, does not tolerate that in 
concerns of a special kind, for instance of economic nature, 
people are asked for advice or judgment who, by virtue of 
their education and activity, are unable to understand any- 
thing of the matter. Therefore it divides its representative 
body from the beginning into political and professional 
chambers. 

In order to guarantee a profitable co-operation between 
them a special selected senate is provided above them. 

No voting ever takes place in any chamber or senate. 
They are working institutions and not voting machines. 
The individual member has an advisory vote but never a 
deciding one. The latter is the exclusive privilege of the 
respective responsible chairman. 

This principle of unconditional connection of absolute 
responsibility with absolute authority will gradually breed 
up a choice of leaders as is inconceivable today, in the era 
of irresponsible parliamentarianism. 

Thus the State constitution of the nation will be brought 
into harmony with that law to which the nation already 
owes its greatness in the domains of culture and economics. 



The pattern is copied from Italian Fascism. Almost imme- 
diately after the success of the 'March on Rome 1 (1922), 
Hitler's Munich organization concluded that something similar 
could be attempted in Germany. The putsch of 1923 was 
patently an imitation. Hitler had no choice but to convince 
himself that the army and the monarch (Crown Prince Rup- 
precht) would be as benevolently neutral as the King and his 
generals had been in Italy. But he failed to realize that so 
many differences separated Bavaria from the rest of Germany 
that it was impossible to proceed from the annexation of 



672 MEIN KAMPF 

As to the possibility of carrying through these ideas, I 
want you not to forget that the parliamentary principle of 
democratic majority rule has not always dominated man- 
kind, but on the contrary it can be found only in very small 
periods of history which, however, have always been periods 
of decline of nations and States. 

Yet one must not believe that by purely theoretical 
measures from above one can bring about such a change, 
because logically it must not even stop at the constitution of 
the State but has to penetrate all the other legislation as 
well and even the general civil life. Such a fundamental 
change can and will take place only through a movement 
which itself is built up in the spirit of these ideas and thus 
already in itself contains the future State. 

Therefore, the National Socialist movement must not 
delay in devoting itself completely to these ideas and carry 
them to practical execution within its own organization, 
so that some day it may not only point out to the State 
these same principles but also place the already completed 
body of its own at the State's disposal. 

Munich to the capture of Berlin. Yet, though the Nazis of 
1923 were relatively unfamiliar with the inside story of 
Fascism, they received detailed information later, when 
Hermann Goering returned from a pleasant period of exile spent 
in Italy. 



CHAPTER V 

VIEW OF LIFE AND 
ORGANIZATION 



"^"HE folkish State, of which I have tried to draw a 
I picture in great outlines, does not become reality 
by the mere knowledge of what this State needs. It 
is not enough to know what a national State ought to 
look like. Much more important is the problem of its 
origin. One must not expect that today's parties, which 
are the principal beneficiaries of the present State, will of 
their own accord arrive at a reversal of their orientation 
and voluntarily undertake a change in their present atti- 
tude. This is the less possible as their actually leading ele- 
ments have always been Jews and again Jews. The devel- 
opment we are undergoing at present, if continued unre- 
strictedly, would some day fulfill the all-Jewish prophecy 
the Jew would actually devour the nations of the world, 
he would become their master. 

In the face of the millions of German 'bourgeois' and 
4 proletarians' who for the greater part, out of indolence and 
stupidity coupled with cowardice, trot towards their doom, 
he, in the fullest consciousness of his future goal, unhesi- 
tatingly pursues his way. Therefore a party that is led 
by him can serve no other interests but his; these, however, 
have nothing in common with the concerns of Aryan nations. 



674 MEIN KAMPF 

If one will try to transform into actual reality the ideal 
picture of a folkish State, then, notwithstanding the 
present powers of public life, one has to look for a new 
power that is willing and able to take up the fight for such 
an ideal. For a fight is involved in this case, inasmuch as 
the first task is not to create a folkish State conception, 
but above all to do away with the present Jewish concep- 
tion. As so many times in history, the main difficulty lies 
not in shaping the new state of affairs, but in making room 
for it. Prejudices and interests unite in a closed phalanx 
and try to prevent by all means the victory of an idea 
which they dislike and which threatens them. 

By this the fighter for such a new ideal, with all the 
emphasis on its positive side, is unfortunately compelled 
primarily to battle out the negative part of the fight which 
is to lead to the abolition of the existing condition. 

A young doctrine of great and principally new signifi- 
cance will have to apply as the first weapon the probe of 
criticism with all its acuteness no matter how disagreeable 
this may be to the individual. 

It shows little insight into historical developments if 
today people who call themselves folkish emphatically 
assure again and again that by no means they wish to be 
active in negative criticism but only in constructive work; 
a genuinely folkish stammering that is equally childishly 
stupid, and a proof showing how even the history of their 
time has passed by these heads without leaving any im- 
pression. Also Marxism had a goal, and even knows a 
constructive activity (although it relates merely to the 
establishment of a despotism of international world finance, 
Jewry!); but previously it has nevertheless exercised criti- 
cism for seventy years; and at that ruinous and destructive 
criticism and more criticism, until by this continuously 
corroding acid the old State was undermined and brought 
to collapse. Only then was its so-called 'construction 1 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 675 

started. And that was natural, correct and logical. An 
existing condition is not abolished by the mere stress and 
presentation of a future condition. For one cannot presume 
that the adherents of, or even those interested in, the pre- 
sently existing condition will be completely converted and 
won for the new condition merely by stating that there is a 
necessity. On the contrary, it may happen only too easily 
that then two conditions remain side by side, and thereby 
the so-called view of life becomes a party, out of the frame 
of which it will not be able to free itself. For the view of 
life is intolerant and cannot be content with the r61e of a 
'party among others/ but it demands dictatorially that it 
be acknowledged exclusively and completely and that the 
entire public life be completely readjusted according to its 
own views. Therefore it cannot tolerate the simultaneous 
existence of a representation of the former condition. 

Exactly the same applies to religions. 

Christianity also could not content itself with building 
up its own altar, it was compelled to proceed to destroying 
the heathen altars. Only out of this fanatical intolerance 
could an apodictic creed form itself, and this intolerance 
is even its absolute presupposition. 

f Now one may very well raise the objection that with 
such phenomena in world history one has mostly to do 
with those of specifically Jewish ways of thinking; that 
indeed this kind of intolerance and fanaticism incorporates 
the very Jewish nature. This may be right a thousand times, 
and one may well regret this fact deeply and state its ap- 
pearance in the history of mankind with only too justified 
annoyance as something that had been unknown to history 
thus far yet this does not change the fact that this con- 
dition does exist today. The men who want to redeem our 
German people from its present condition must not torture 
their heads with thinking about how splendid it would be 
if this or that did not exist, but they must try to find out 



676 MEIK KAMPF 

how one can abolish given facts. A view of life, filled with 
infernal intolerance, will be broken only by a new idea 
that is driven forward by a similar spirit, is fought for with 
the same strongest will, but is pure and genuine throughout. 

The individual may state with pain today that with the 
appearance of Christianity the first spiritual terror has been 
brought into the much freer old world, but he will not be 
able to deny the fact that since then the world has been 
threatened and dominated by this compulsion, and that 
compulsion is broken only by compulsion, and terror by 
terror. Only then can a new condition be created by con- 
struction. &lt; 

Political parties are inclined towards compromises, views 
of life never. Political parties count with opponents, views oj 
life proclaim their infallibility. 

Political parties too have originally always the intention 
of coming to sole despotic domination ; nearly always they 
harbor a minor impulse towards a view of life. But the 
very narrowness of their programs robs them of the heroism 
that a view of life demands. The conciliating measures of 
their intention leads to them the petty and weak minds 
with whom one cannot make crusades. Thus in most cases 
they soon get stuck in their own pitiable pettiness. By 
this, however, they renounce the fight for a view of life and 
instead by so-called 'positive co-operation* they try to 



The idea that Christianity introduced 'spiritual terror' 
into a previously immune world is a favorite Rosenberg 
notion. (Cf. Mythus des 2on Jahrhunderts.) But it has had 
a still more fervent protagonist in Count Reventlow, whose 
Reichswart contained many articles denouncing the 'Chris- 
tian dualism 9 which sunders God from the world, and soul 
from body, has turned human beings into 'creatures without 
wills/ who propagate themselves 'with a guilty conscience, 
under the last of sermons against sin/ 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 677 

conquer as quickly as possible a place at the food trough 
of existing institutions and to remain there as long as pos- 
sible. This, then, is their only endeavor. And if ever they 
should be pushed away from this general feeding crib, by 
a competing boarder with a somewhat brutal nature, then 
their every thought and wish is solely directed at getting 
again at the head of the herd of those who are also hungry, 
be it by force or by ruse, in order that finally, even at the 
cost of their most sacred conviction, they may refresh 
themselves at the beloved food source. Jackals of politics! 

Since a view of life is never willing to share with another 
one, it cannot be ready either to co-operate in an existing 
condition that it condemns, but it feels the obligation of 
fighting, by all available means, this condition and the 
entire hostile world of ideas; that means of preparing their 
collapse. 

This purely corrosive fight, which is recognized in its 
danger at once by all others and therefore meets general 
resistance and defense, as well as the positive fight which 
attacks for the purpose of putting through its own new world 
of ideas, demands determined fighters. Therefore a view of 
life will lead its ideas to victory only if in its ranks it 
unites the most courageous and most energetic elements of 
its era and of its people, and brings them into the solid 
forms of a forceful fighting organization. To this end, it is 
necessary that, with a view to these elements, it extract 
certain ideas from its own general world picture and 
clothe them with a form that in its precise, slogan-like 
brevity seems suitable to serve as a creed for a new com- 
munity of men. While the program of a political party, 
which is no more than that, is the recipe for favorable 
results in the next election, the program of a view of life 
means the formulation of a declaration of war against an 
existing order, against an existing condition, in short, against 
an existing conception of life in general. 



678 MEIN KAMPF 

Thereby it is not necessary that each individual who 
fights for this view of life have full insight into, and exact 
knowledge of, the ultimate ideas and trends of thought of 
the movement's leader. Rather it is necessary that one 
make clear to him only a few but very great viewpoints 
and that the essential basic lines are unforgettably branded 
in his memory, so that he is completely imbued with the 
conviction that the victory of his movement and its doc- 
trine is necessary. The individual soldier, too, is not 
initiated into the thought development of higher strategy. 
As he is trained for strict discipline and a fanatical con- 
viction of the right and the force of his cause and for com- 
plete devotion to it, so must be trained the individual 
adherent of a movement of great scope, great future, and 
greatest intentions. 

As useless as an army would be the individual soldiers of 
which would all be generals, and be it only by their educa- 
tion and knowledge, just as useless would be a political 
movement as representation of a view of life if it were only 
the reservoir of 'intellectual' people. No, it needs the 
primitive soldier too, as otherwise inner discipline cannot 
be achieved. 

The very nature of an organization implies that it can 
exist only if the broad masses, motivated by sentiment, 
serves a highest intellectual leadership. A company of two 
hundred men, mentally all equally able, could in the long 
run be disciplined only with greater difficulty than a com- 
pany of one hundred and ninety mentally less able men and 
ten who are more highly educated. 

From this fact Social Democracy once drew the greatest 
profit. It integrated the members of the great masses of 
our people who were dismissed from military service and 
were trained in discipline, and took them into its equally 
strict party discipline. Its organization, too, presented an 
army of officers and soldiers. The German manual laborer. 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 679 

discharged from military service, became the soldier, the 
Jewish intellectual the officer; the German labor union 
official thereby can be considered as the corps of non- 
commissioned officers. What our bourgeoisie regarded with 
a shaking of their heads, namely the fact that only the so- 
called uneducated masses belonged to Marxism, was in 
truth the presumption for its success. For while the 
bourgeois parties in their one-sided intellectuality present 
an unable, undisciplined gang, Marxism, by its material 
of intellectually untrained men has created an army of 
party soldiers who obeyed the Jewish director just as 
blindly as previously their German officer. The German 
bourgeoisie which principally never cared about psychologi- 
cal problems because it considered such problems far 
beneath their dignity found it unnecessary also in this 
case to think so that they might recognize the deeper 
meaning as well as the secret danger of this fact. On the 
contrary, people thought that a political movement that 
is formed only in the circles of the 'intelligentsia* was 
more valuable for this very reason, and had a greater claim 
and even more probability of coming into power than had 
the uneducated masses. One never understood that the 
strength of a political party lies by no means in a mentality, 
as great and as independent as possible, of the individual 
members but rather in the disciplined obedience with which its 
members follow their intellectual leadership. The decisive 
factor is the leadership proper. If two bodies of troops 
battle one another, not that will be victorious in which 
each individual received the highest strategic training, but 
that which has the most superior leaders and at the same 
time the best disciplined, blindly obedient, best drilled 
troop. 

This is a fundamental realization which, when examining 
the possibility of putting a view of life into activity, we 
must keep before our eyes. 



680 MEIN KAMPF 

Therefore, if, in order to lead a view of life to victory, 
we have to transform it into a fighting movement, the pro- 
gram of the movement has logically to consider the human 
material that it has at its disposal. As immovable as the 
final aims and the leading ideas must be, just as ingenious 
and psychologically correct must the method be, by which 
the propaganda program is orientated at the souls of those 
without whose help the most sublime idea would forever 
remain only an idea. 

If thefolkish idea wants to proceed to a clear success from 
the unclear intentions of today, then it has to single out certain 
leading principles from its large world of thought, principles 
which, according to their nature and contents, are suitable for 
obligating a broad mass of people, namely, that mass which 
alone guarantees the fight for this idea according to a view of 
life. This is the mass of the German workers. 

For this reason, the program of the new movement was 
summed up in a few, altogether twenty-five articles. They 
are destined primarily to give the man in the street a 
rough picture of the movement's intention. They are in 
a way of speaking a political creed which on the one 
hand campaigns for the movement and which on the other 
hand is suited for uniting and welding together those 
who have been attracted by a generally acknowledged ob- 
ligation. 

Hereby the following realization must never leave us: 
since the so-called program of the movement is certainly 
absolutely correct in its final aims, but as in its formulation 
it had to take psychological momenta into consideration, 
there can well arise, in the course of time, the conviction 
that in individual instances perhaps certain leading pro- 
positions should be framed differently, or should receive 
a better formulation. But every attempt in this direction 
has, in most cases, catastrophic effects. For thereby some- 
thing that should stand unshakably firm is given free to 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 681 

discussion which, once a single point is deprived of its 
faithful, dogmatic determination, does not result immedi- 
ately in a new, better, and above all a uniform determina- 
tion, but which will rather lead to never-ending debates 
and to general confusion. In such a case there remains 
always the reflection of what is better: a new, more fortu- 
nate formulation which causes a dispute within the move- 
ment, or a form which at the moment is perhaps not the 
best one, but presents an organism that in itself is complete, 
unshakable and entirely uniform. Every examination will 
show that the latter is preferable. Since changes always 
involve only the outward form, such corrections will again 
and again appear as possible or desirable. Finally, owing 
to people's superficiality there is the great danger that in such 
purely outward formulation of a program they see the most 
essential task of a movement. With this, however, the will 
and the force needed in fighting for the idea proper with- 
draws to the background, and the activity that ought to 
turn to the outside will wear itself out in internal fights, 
about the program. 

With a doctrine that in great lines is actually correct, 
it is less harmful to retain a formulation, even if in reality 
it were no longer quite up-to-date, than to deliver, by its 
correction, to general discussion and all its most evil con- 
sequences, a principle of the movement that so far has been 
looked upon as made of granite. This is impossible above 
all as long as a movement itself is still fighting for victory. 
For how does one think to fill people with blind faith in the 
correctness of a doctrine if by continued changes in 
its outward construction one spreads uncertainty and 
doubt? 

The essential has never to be sought in externals but 
always only in the inner meaning. And this is unchange- 

A note on the Program is appended to this chapter. 



682 MEIN KAMPF 

able; and in its interest one can ultimately only wish that 
the movement, by keeping off all events that cause splits 
and uncertainty, will preserve the force necessary in fighting 
for it. 

Here, too, one can learn from the Catholic Church. 
Although its structure of doctrines in many instances 
collides, quite unnecessarily, with exact science and re- 
search, yet it is unwilling to sacrifice even one little syllable 
of its dogmas. It has rightly recognized that its resistibility 
does not lie in a more or less great adjustment to the scienti- 
fic results of the moment, which in reality are always chang- 
ing, but rather in a strict adherence to dogmas, once laid 
down, which alone give the entire structure the character of 
creed. Today, therefore, the Catholic Church stands firmer 
than ever. One can prophesy that in the same measure in 
which the appearances flee, the Church itself, as the resting 
pole in the flight of appearances, will gain more and more 
blind adherence. 

Therefore, he who actually and seriously desires the victory 
of a folkish view of life has not only to recognize that first, for 
gaining such a victory , only a strong fighting movement is 
suitable, but that secondly such a movement in turn will 
endure only on the basis of an unshakable security and firm- 
ness of its program. It must not dare to make allowances in 
the formulation of the latter to the spirit of the respective era, 
but must keep a form, once it has been found favorable, for- 
ever, in any case until it is crowned by victory. Before that, 
every attempt at bringing about settlements concerning the 
expedience of the one or the other point will split up the 
unity and the fighting force of the movement in the measure 
in which its followers take part in such an inner discussion. 
This does not mean that an 'improvement* that has been 
carried out today might not be subjected to critical re- 
examinations as early as tomorrow, only to find a better 
substitute the day after tomorrow. He who in such cases 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 683 

tears the barrier down lays open a way the beginning of 
which is known, but the end of which loses itself in the 
Infinite. 

This important realization had to find its application in 
the young National Socialist movement. The National 
Socialist German Workers' Party, with its program of twenty- 
five points, received a foundation that is bound to be unshak- 
able. The task of the present members of the movement, 
and of those to come, must not consist of a critical reshaping 
of these leading principles, but rather in their pledge to 
them. For otherwise the next generation would in turn 
have the same right of wasting its force for such a purely 
formal work within the party instead of leading to the 
movement new adherents and with it new forces. For the 
great number of followers, the nature of our movement will 
lie less in the letter of our principles but rather in the mean- 
ing which we are able to give them. 

To these realizations the young movement once owed its 
name, in accordance with them its program was composed, 
and in them roots also the manner of its propagation. In 
order to help the folkish ideas to victory, a national party had 
to be created, a party that does not consist only of intellectual 
leaders, but also of manual laborers! 

Every attempt to proceed with the materialization of folkish 
ideas without such a forceful organization, today, as in the 
past and in the future, would be without success. With this 
the movement has not only the right but the duty to con- 
sider itself the protagonist and thus the representative of 
these ideas. As much as the basic idea* of the National 
Socialist movement are folkish, so much are, at the same 
time, the folkish ideas, National Socialist. If, however, 
National Socialism wants to be victorious, then it has to 
espouse this statement absolutely and exclusively. Here 
too it has not only the right but also the duty of stressing 
most sharply the fact that any attempt to represent the 



684 MEIN KAMPF 

folkish idea outside of the frame of the National Socialist 
Party is impossible and in most cases based on downright 
fraud* 

If today someone reproaches the movement that it be- 
haves as though it exclusively 'owned* the folkish idea, 
there is only one correct answer to this: 

Not only owned but created for practical reality. 

For what hitherto existed under this heading was not 
suitable for influencing the fate of our people even to the 
smallest degree, as all these ideas lacked the clear, uniform 
formulation. What existed was mostly single, disjointed 
and more or less correct realizations, which not infrequently 
contradicted one another, but which at any rate had no 
inner bond among themselves. And even if this bond had 
existed, yet in its weakness it would never have sufficed as 
a basis towards which to orientate and upon which to 
construct a movement. 

Solely the National Socialist movement achieved this. 



If today all kinds of associations and little associations, 
groups and little groups, and for all I care, also 'great 
parties' claim the word 'folkish' for themselves, this is in 
itself a consequence of the activity of the National Socialist 
movement. Without its work all these organizations would 
never have thought of even pronouncing the word 'folkish,' they 
even would not have imagined anything by this word, and 
especially their leading heads would not have had any 
relation whatsoever to it. It was only the work of the 
N.S.G.W.P. which made this a pregnant word that is now 
being used by all kinds of people, above all, in its own suc- 
cessful work of propaganda the party has shown and proved 
the force of these folkish ideas so that the others are forced 
by their very greed of advantage at least to pretend wanting 
something similar* 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 685 

f Just as hitherto they have put everything at the service 
of their petty ballot speculations, thus the conception 
'folkish' has remained even today for these parties only an 
entirely superficial and hollow slogan with which they try 
to counterbalance, with their own members, the attractive 
force of the National Socialist movement. For only the 
care for their own existence, as well as their fear of the 
growth of our movement, that is carried by a new view of 
life, the universal significance of which they guess as well 
as its dangerous exclusiveness, makes them use words which 
eight years ago they did not know, at which they laughed 
seven years ago, which they called nonsense six years ago, 
fought five years ago, hated four years ago, persecuted 
three years ago, only to adopt them, at last, two years ago 
and now, combined with their own vocabulary, to use them 
as a battle cry in their fight. 

And even today one has always to point out again that 
all these parties have no idea what the German people needs. 
The most striking proof of this is the superficiality with 
which they use the word 'folkish.' 

Not less dangerous are all those who run around as sham 
folkish, making fantastic plans, mostly based on nothing 
but an id6e fixe which in itself might be right, but in its 
isolation is nevertheless without any significance for the 
formation of a great uniform fighting community, and in no 
case suited for building up such a community. These 
people who brew together a program partly of what they 
think themselves, partly of what they have read, are 
frequently more dangerous than the open enemies of the 
folkish idea. In the most favorable case they are sterile 
theorists, but most disastrous swaggerers, and not seldom 
they believe that with flowing beards and primeval Ger- 
manic doings they can disguise the spiritual and mental 
inanity of their activity and abilities. 

In contrast with all these futile experiments it is therefore 



686 MEIN KAMPF 

well to remember the time in which the young National 
Socialist movement began its battle. ^ 



The twenty-five points of the Party program had been 
extensively criticized both inside and outside the organization. 
By 1927 Hitler had grown reasonably sure that the economic 
views of Gottfried Feder could never prevail in the world of 
real life. Still he very shrewdly refused to give up the program, 
and argued that good Nazis should be so aflame with zeal 
that they would believe what was set before them as unques- 
tioningly as Catholics believe the dogmas of their Church. 
To have adopted another program would have helped little, 
since the Party objective was not to enter the Reichstag and 
help to bring about better conditions, but solely and simply to 
create a disciplined organization with which to acquire and 
keep possession of the power of the State. The Nazi of 1938 
may sometimes pause to wonder what has happened to the 
Party gospel. A cursory survey is interesting: 

Art. i: Inclusion, on the basis of the principle of self- 
determination, of all Germans in a Pan-German State. 

Comment: Austria and the Sudetenland have been annexed, 
but the principle of self-determination was not invoked. 

Art. 2: Annulment of the Treaties of Versailles and St. 
Germain. 

Comment: The Treaty of Versailles is a dead letter in so 
far as these important matters are concerned the size of 
the German army, navy and air fleet; the maintenance of a 
demilitarized zone in the Rhineland; and the payment of 
reparations. These provisions are still in force the cessions 
of territory to Poland; the grant of Alsace-Lorraine to France; 
the severance of Eupen-Malmedy and of a third of the region 
of Schleswig from Germany; the loss of the former German 
colonies. In so far as the Treaty of St. Germain is concerned, 
the only changes to date are those which concern German 
annexations in the regions aforementioned, and the grant of 
certain Slovak territories to Hungary. 

Art. 3: Colonies are demanded. 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 687 

Comment: Owing largely to the inability of Germany to 
decide what was meant by 'colonies' and what concessions 
would be offered by way of compensation, no success has 
been achieved in so far as this point is concerned. 

Art. 4 : Only persons of 4 German blood ' can be citizens. 

Comment: To date this article has been enforced against 
the Jewish group. But citizens of Czech, Polish, or Hungarian 
descent have not been molested. 'Enemies of the regime 1 
have been disenfranchised despite their German blood. 

Art. 5: Non -citizens are to live under 'laws for strangers.' 

Comment: Minority legislation has been a constant problem 
in the Third Reich. The treatment accorded the Jewish 
minority is well-known. Polish and Czech minorities are 
under constant but varying pressure. The Dutch minority has 
been faced with a number of problems. Citizens of other 
States are welcome as guests, but have often been the victims 
of disorder. 

Art. 6 : Appointment to office must be made not on the basis 
of Party membership, but because of 'character and fitness.' 

Comment: Non-Party members have been systematically 
removed from office. In nearly every department of public 
life, appointments are made on the basis of political loyalty. 
The future 'leaders' of the country are to be selected from 
the elite of various Nazi organizations. Even the clergy of 
the Lutheran Church are 'graded 1 in accordance with their 
Party affiliations. 

Art. 7: In case the citizens of the country cannot be sup- 
ported, non-citizens must go. 

Comment: Evidently the events of November, 1938, must 
be linked to this Article. 

Art. 8: There must be no further immigration of non- 
Germans. 

Comment: The sole noted exceptions to this rule have been 
the incorporation of Czech minorities in the occupied areas, 
and the importation of Italian labor. 

Art. 9: All citizens 'must possess equal rights and duties/ 

Comment: Membership in Hitlerite organizations is volun- 
tary, but refusal to join has meant economic discrimination. 



688 MEIN KAMPF 

More than 150,000 persons have been jailed for long terms in 
prisons or concentration camps for offenses most of which 
have antedated the Machtergreifung or the annexations. More 
than 50,000 Aryan Germans have gone into exile. The number 
of those who have served brief prison terms is not known. 

Art. 10: The first duty of every citizen is to work for the 
common good. 

Comment: 'Work cards' must be carried by all laboring 
people. The right to a place of employment is not recognized. 
Capital can be required to invest its funds in designated 
national enterprises. Savings banks can be compelled to invest 
their deposits in government loans. 

Art. 1 1 : Unearned income must be abrogated. 

Comment: No law has been passed abolishing unearned 
income. But investment funds are subject to an increasing 
number of restrictions. 

Art. 12: Confiscation of war profits. 

Comment: It might have been possible to confiscate war- 
time profits in 1919 and 1920. But legislation designed to 
acquire these profits met with so much opposition, and the 
situation in the Western provinces was so precarious, that 
little could be done. Once the wave of inflation had swept 
the country, the idea ceased to possess any significance. But 
profits accruing to Germans for assistance to other countries 
engaged in warfare have not been confiscated, as witness the 
steadily increasing German private holdings in Italy and 
Spain. 

Art. 13: All trusts must be turned over to the state. 

Comment: No trust has as yet met this fate. As a matter 
of fact, the Nazis turned back to the German Steel Trust 
packets of stock acquired by the government under the 
Republic. Through this transaction, Fritz Thyssen (once a 
heavy contributor to Hitler's campaign chest) reacquired 
control of that Trust. On the other hand, the trend towards 
State Socialism is so marked that the nationalization of private 
industries beyond a certain size may soon prove unavoidable. 

Art. 14: Profit-sharing is demanded. 

Comment: It was never quite clear what Feder meant by 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 689 

'profit-sharing.' He offered a number of explanations, one of 
which seemed to possess a measure of finality. The only way 
to distribute profits was, he declared, to lower prices and raise 
wages. Since 1933 the government has settled the debate by 
taking recourse to price-fixing. 

Art. 15: A generous increase in old-age pensions is needed. 

Comment: Since 1933, the unemployment insurance fund 
has grown so rapidly that the government was able during 
1937 to borrow heavily from it. The old-age pension fund 
remains, however, in a chronic state of anemia. No subsidies 
have been granted. 

Art. 16: The middle class must be protected; department 
stores must be divided into a number of small stores each of 
which is operated by an independent merchant. 

Comment: Perhaps no other item in the program elicited 
so much approval. During 1933, a weak attempt was made to 
carry out this interesting suggestion, but nothing came of it. 
Gradually Jewish interests were squeezed out, and foreign 
owners of department store stock deducted an appropriate 
amount from their income-tax reports. But the stores them- 
selves continue to operate as of old. Better equipped than 
the smaller shops to reckon with shortages in staple merchan- 
dise and price changes, they seemed destined to outlive most 
of their rivals. 

Art. 17: The land must serve communal purposes, and 
interest-taking is prohibited if it involves foreclosure. 

Comment: Special laws have been passed regulating the 
title to the so-called Erbhof (hereditary farm). Under this 
legislation, about 845,000 small farms are reserved for 'family* 
use, much in the same way as peasant holdings are regulated 
in France under the Code Napolfen. The land cannot be sold 
or divided without the permission of the special court (Erbhof s- 
gerichf), and there can be only one heir. The idea was born of a 
somewhat romantic impulse to foster a 'peasant nobility,' 
but at first had a wide popular appeal because foreclosures 
were made impossible. But, as always, the advantage was 
accompanied by a disadvantage. Since the farms cannot be 
old, they can also not be used as security for loans. In addi- 



690 MEIN KAMPF 

tion the difficulty involved in providing for other children 
than the sole heir is considerable. 

The peasant's life is circumscribed by many laws. He must 
ell at a certain price. At specified times, he must turn over 
to the authorities a fixed amount of produce. Failure to 
comply would mean confession of inability to farm the land 
properly, and might lead to loss of the homestead. As a 
result of constant fighting against shortages of grain and other 
foodstuffs shortages which grow more noticeable as the 
army expands and as it is discovered that the agricultural 
districts of the annexed regions did not supply foodstuffs in 
quantities sufficient to feed their populations farming in 
Germany has passed through numerous interesting experi- 
mental phases. Thus a shortage of fodder led to inability to 
feed cattle, which in turn led to a shortage of milk, etc., etc. 

Art. 18: Usurers, speculators, and other criminals of the 
same ilk are to be punished with death. 

Comment: This article reflects the post- War feeling of 
indignation and despair caused by the high premiums on 
money. Today the stock exchange is controlled. The death 
penalty can be resorted to for violation of the currency laws 
which involve smuggling. Usury, however, is relatively 
uncommon, the manipulation of currency being chiefly a 
matter of obtaining permission to use one of the several kinds 
of Mark now in use. 

Art. 19: Roman law must be abrogated and replaced with 
German law. 

Comment: In retrospect this seems the most important 
article of all. Criticism of 'Roman law* as expounded in 
German jurisprudence has been a familiar theme of German 
political writing for more than fifty years. Based on Scholastic 
distinctions, this law did unquestionably lose itself in formali- 
ties and academic distinctions. After the War, the question 
became acute once more. Was the law there for its own sake, 
or for the sake of the people who lived under it? Doubtless 
Feder and his friends were thinking primarily of the law as it 
affected individuals during periods of monetary unsettlement. 
After the inflation, the legislatures and the courts laid down 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 691 

broad rules of procedure on the basis of which mortgages and 
other debts were to be dealt with. In many individual cases, 
mortal havoc was wrought upon the fortunes of thousands. 
People naturally thought, as the literature of the time so 
clearly shows, that the law ought to have taken into considera- 
tion the nature of individual claims. Many felt that the very 
basis of right and wrong had vanished. 

Today German law has come to mean that anything which 
serves the national purpose, as that is interpreted by the 
government, is legal. The principle laid down by Hans Frank, 
Reich Minister of Justice, that 'Right is what serves the 
people; wrong, what is detrimental to them/ has led in practice 
to extraordinary conclusions. For it is obvious that such a 
theory of the law must perplex and unsettle the courts. In 
handling cases which involve friction with the police or the 
political authorities, recourse is often had to precedent that 
has been established in the enforcement of some edict. For 
example, there is the measure signed by President von Hinden- 
burg in 1933 empowering the government to suppress as 
treasonable any action that serves the Communist Party. 
Almost anything an official dislikes can be interpreted in the 
light of that measure. Thus, for example, clergymen have 
been sentenced for endeavoring to convert former Communists 
to Christianity. On the other hand, the courts also refuse in 
numerous instances to take action against Party members. 
Late in 1938, a young Nazi broke into St. Vincent's Church at 
Neuhausen, near Munich, and smashed both the baptismal 
font and the crucifix above the high altar. He was arrested and 
brought to trial. But the court's reaction to his declaration 
that he proposed to smash baptismal fonts whenever he had 
the chance was a verdict of not guilty. 

It is nevertheless possible to win difficult cases, if an attorney 
of sufficient energy and fearlessness can be found. Cases are 
known to have been won despite insistence by prominent 
officials that an adverse decision was expected. In short, the 
'common law' is at present in a highly nebulous state. The 
statutory law seems to be enforced and interpreted conscien- 
tiously; but the maze of regulations governing virtually every 



692 MEIN KAMPF 

form of endeavor naturally render procedure difficult. For 
example, all publishing is subject to the control of the various 
agencies entrusted with the supervision of culture. These 
are not always in agreement; and if an appeal is made from a 
lower instance to a higher, the decision may hinge upon a 
technicality based on an enactment made after the matter 
was first brought up. 

Art. 20: Higher education must serve the German cause, 
and be made available to the children of poor parents. 

Comment: Higher education has been thoroughly nation- 
alized, though it would be mistaken to assume that honest 
scientific work is a thing of the past. Attendance has been 
greatly curtailed; 'racial purity* is required of all students; 
and the academic outlook generally is cloudy. The 'children 
of poor parents ' are not favored. 

Art. 21 : It is the duty of the state to protect health. 

Comment: Feder was thinking of three things in particular: 
abolition of child labor, care for mothers employed in industry, 
and state support of 'associations interested in athletic de- 
velopment' (the S.A. was one such association). In addi- 
tion he seems to have been interested (cf. Das Programm der 
N.S.D.A.P.) is health as one aspect of the reform of the 
judiciary, since in his view the courts always placed 'property 
rights' above 'personal rights.' In all these matters, Feder's 
indebtedness to Karl Vogelsang is obvious. 

Art. 22: A 'people's army' is to replace the 'mercenary 
army.' 

Comment: By this Feder did not mean that restoration of 
the German military machine which has since become an 
accomplished fact. Writing in 1920, he thought of a government 
willing to foster the spirit of resistance wherever and whenever 
it could. Nevertheless there are some differences between the 
German army of 1938 and that of 1914. First, politics unques- 
tionably play a far greater rdle now than they did formerly. 
The older caste of officers have been loathe to abjure their 
tnonarchistic convictions, and eager to avoid what many have 
described as 'adventures.' If they had their way, rearmament 
would have proceeded at a far slower pace; Austria would have 



VIEW OF LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 693 

been treated as an ally, and not as a colony; and great pains 
would have been taken to win friends abroad through a con- 
ciliatory foreign policy. Many of them do not believe (cf. 
Militdrisches Wochcnblatt) that Germany can achieve military 
preparedness on an 'autarchical' economic basis. Many of 
them have suffered for these convictions, after various 'crises' 
in the relationships between the army and the government. 

On the other hand, large numbers of younger officers have 
adopted the Nazi point of view. Many of them have come 
up through the Hitler organizations, to which they owe their 
present tenure of what in modern Germany is a 'dignified rank 
and station.' These men are unwilling to maintain the sharp 
distinction between politics and military leadership which was 
a dogma in the pre-War Prussian army. 

Nevertheless one cannot discount altogether even now the 
theory that the ultimate decision as to what Germany's fate 
is to be rests with the army, if only for the reason that the 
existing situation is too confused to warrant a decision. 

Art. 23 : Regulations are needed to govern the press. 

Comment: The Reichskulturkammcr (Reich Chamber of 
Culture) embraces in theory all the seven agencies of 'culture' 
authorship, the press, the radio, the movie, music, the arts, 
authors, musicians, and artists. Virtually all these endeavors 
have been subject to the control of Dr. Goebbels, but recently 
some of his authority has been delegated to others. The press 
and the radio are completely subordinated (glcichgcschaltct). 
In Berlin the shrinkage in the newspaper field is more and more 
startling, now that the Tagcblatt and the Deutsche Attgemeine 
Zeitung have merged, and the Germania has ceased publication. 
Old Vienna landmarks the Tagblatt, the Neue Freie Presse, 
and the Reichspost have disappeared. The holocaust in 
the provinces is comparable. Radio broadcasting has become 
an unadorned propaganda instrument. 

Authors, musicians and artists are carefully censored. What 
a given periodical may print is carefully prescribed. Recently, 
for example, religious periodicals have been forbidden to publish 
fiction or essays on topics of general interest. Still there is 
manifest a certain 'liberalizing' tendency. Authors, musicians 



694 MEIN KAMPF 

and painters who at first were highly touted as representatives 
ot the new Weltanschauung are now somewhat less enthusi- 
astically advertised, but the critical tone of most Nazi journals 
(notably Der Schwarze Korps) has not grown more temperate. 

Art. 24: The Party professes the viewpoint of 'positive 
Christianity.' 

Comment: What did 'positive Christianity* mean? Feder 
himself was often in a dilemma. On the one hand, many rabid 
anti-Semitic journalists were carried along by a natural im- 
pulse to attack the Christian faith. On the other hand, it was 
manifestly impossible for a political party to survive in Bavaria 
if it identified itself with such attacks. In addition Feder 
himself had a high personal regard for religion. He therefore 
expounded his phrase as meaning that respect was due the 
Churches, despite all the evils with which they had identified 
themselves throughout history. Since 1933, however, another 
interpretation of 'positive Christianity* has been afforded. 
Cardinal Faulhaber and Pastor Martin Niemoeller have be- 
come symbols of the 'Christianity' that is not 'positive/ 

Art. 25: The 'central parliament* is to have exclusive con- 
trol of the Reich. 

Comment: At the time the Program was first drawn up, 
Feder was still thinking in pre-Fascist terms. His 'parliament* 
was doubtless conceived of as a kind of 'corporative assembly/ 
such as Austrian National Socialists had in mind, probably 
because of Vogelsang's teaching. It is needless to say that no 
such 'parliament* exists in Germany. As originally constituted 
in 1933, the Nazi Reichstag did, however, have a certain vague 
corporative appearance. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE STRUGGLE OF 

THE EARLY DAYS 

THE SIGNIFICANCE OF 

THE SPOKEN WORD 



THE memory of the first great meeting on February 24, 
1920, in the Hofbrauhausfestsaal had not yet died 
out when the preparations for the next meeting were 
made. While hitherto it had been looked upon as risky in 
a city like Munich to hold a small meeting every month 
or even every fortnight, now every seven days, that means 
once a week, a great mass meeting was scheduled to take 
place. I need not reassure you that thereby only one sole 
fear tortured us again and again: would people come and 
would they listen to us? although I personally was even 
then of the unshakable conviction that, once they are here, 
people will also remain and follow the speech. 

In that time the Munich Hofbrauhausfestsaal assumed 
an almost solemn significance for us National Socialists. 
Every week a meeting, almost always in this room, and 
every time the hall more crowded and people more atten- 
tive! Starting with the 'War Guilt' about which at that 
time nobody bothered, progressing over the peace treaties, 



696 MEIN KAMPF 

nearly everything was being treated in some way as expe- 
dient in the way of agitation or ideas. Especially the peace 
treaties proper were given the most minute attention. 
What did the young movement in those days prophesy to 
the great masses again and again, and how nearly every- 
thing has arrived to date! Today it is easy to speak or to 
write about these things. But in those days a public mass 
meeting which consisted not of petty bourgeois but of 
goaded proletarians, and its subject 'The Peace Treaty of 
Versailles 1 meant an attack upon the Republic and a sign 
of a reactionary, if not even monarchist attitude. Even 
with the first sentence that contained a criticism of Ver- 
sailles, one would be bombarded with the stereotyped call : 
'And Brest-Litovsk?' 'Brest-Litovsk!' Thus they would 
howl again and again until they gradually became hoarse or 
until the speaker gave up his attempt at convincing them. 
One could have crushed one's head against the wall in 
despair about such a people! They did not want to hear, 
did not want to understand, that Versailles was a disgrace 
and a shame, not even that this dictate meant an unheard- 
of plundering of our people. The Marxist work of destruc- 
tion and the hostile poisonous propaganda had carried 
these people beyond all reason. Besides, one was not even 
allowed to complain. For how immeasurably great was the 
guilt on the other side! What had the bourgeoisie done in 
order to check this terrible deterioration to face it and to 
open the way for truth by a better and more thorough en- 
lightenment? Nothing, and again nothing! In those days 
I saw them nowhere, all the great folkish apostles of today. 
Perhaps they talked in private circles, at tea parties or in 

This and the preceding pages embody further attacks on 
rival ultra-nationalist groups, especially those led by Graefe 
and Drexler. Hitler's success in relegating Graefe to a minor 
r61e is due chiefly to three things: the reorganization of the 



THE STRUGGLE OF THE EARLY DAYS 697 

meetings of loyal friends, but there where they should have 
been, among the wolves, they did not dare to go; unless 
there was an opportunity when they could have howled 
with them. 

It was clear to myself at that time that for the small 
basic stock that at first formed the movement, the question 
of the war guilt had to be cleared up, that means cleared in 
the sense of historical truth. That our movement imparted 
the knowledge of the peace treaty to the broadest masses 
was one of the suppositions for the movement's success in 
the future. In those days, when everybody still looked upon 
this peace as a success of Democracy, one had to stand up 
against it and to dig oneself into the brains of the people 
forever as the enemy of this treaty, so that later, once 
bitter reality would expose this treacherous fallalery in all 

S.A., the activities of the Strassers in Berlin, and Hitler's 
friendship with Dr. Alfred Hugenberg. The first will be con- 
sidered later. In Berlin the Strassers, Otto and Gregor, 
preached Nazi doctrine with a marked 'socialistic' inlay. They 
veered towards acceptance of the 'anti-Marxist class struggle* 
theories of Rudolf Jung; and the more colorful attacks oi 
Goebbels on the 'profiteers' reflect their spirit. In Berlin there 
was an audience for such teachings an audience for which 
Feder's theses, derivative from Austrian ideology, would have 
meant nothing. 

During 1929 Hitler went to Berlin, where Hugenberg (then 
chief of the German National Party) was organizing a plebis- 
cite to veto the Young Plan, then up for discussion in the 
Reichstag. The two spoke from the same platform. This led 
to a breach between Hitler and Otto Strasser, who thereupon 
published a brochure attacking Hitler as an opportunist who 
had 'sold out the revolution. 1 But Hugenberg was now con- 
vinced that Hitler was 'amenable,' and presented him to a 
number of friends. Financial support was now assured, and 
Hitler also met Heir von Stauss, one of the directors of the 



698 MEIN KAMPF 

its undisguised hatred, the memory of our attitude of 
those days would win us their confidence. 

Even in those days I was always in favor of making front 
against the entire public opinion, whenever it took a wrong 
attitude in questions of principle, without considering 
popularity, hatred or struggle. The N.S.G.W.P. must not 
become a bailiff of public opinion, but its ruler. It must not 
be the masses' slave, but their master! 

There exists, of course, and especially for every move- 
ment that is still weak, the great temptation of joining up 
and in shouting at moments when a superior enemy, by its 
skill of seduction, has succeeded in driving the people to a 
foolish decision or a wrong attitude, especially whenever 
a few reasons and be it only apparently could speak 
in favor of it from the young movement's viewpoint. In 



Deutsche Bank. Thus, though the move to veto the Young 
Plan failed, the whole episode was enormously advantageous 
to Hitler. All the propaganda made by Hugenberg against the 
Young Plan turned out to be propaganda advertising Hitler 
as 'safe' and 'sensible.' This did not prevent Nazi deputies 
in the Reichstag from introducing measures which advocated 
the nationalization of the banks, the confiscation of all bank 
profits made since the war, and the virtual abolition of the stock 
exchange. Eventually the contrast between Hitler's practice 
and Party doctrine was too much for Gregor Strasser as well; 
and his resignation left Ernst Roehm the sole important advo- 
cate of 'socialism' left in the upper tier of the Nazi Party. 

But Hitler was playing a crafty game. Indeed, he appears 
hardly to have been aware of the point to which forces nw 
abroad in the land were carrying him. One moment he would 
join hands with Hugenberg; the next, a rift would open itself up 
between them. Through all this period of uncertainty he was 
guided by Hugenberg, the German National Don Quixote, who 
failed to see that at a given moment he would find himself 
with his small group of followers face to face with the vast 



THE STRUGGLE OF THE EARLY DAYS 699 

such cases human cowardice will so zealously seek for such 
reasons that then nearly always it finds something that 
would furnish a trace of justification to join in such a crime, 
even from its 'own viewpoint.' 

Several times I experienced such cases when the highest 
energy was needed for preventing the ship of the movement 
from floating into the artificially produced, general current, 
or rather, from letting it drift with it. This happened the 
last time when our infernal press, to which the German 
people's existence is Hecuba, succeeded in puffing up the 
South Tyrol question to an importance that will become 
fatal to the German people. Without considering whose 
cause they were serving, many so-called 'national' men 
and parties and associations have joined, purely out of 
cowardice, the public opinion, stirred up by the Jews, and 
helped stupidly in supporting the fight against a system 
that we Germans, just in our present situation, should 
consider the sole bright ray in this decaying world. While 
the international world Jew slowly but surely strangles our 
throats, our so-called patriots shout against the man and a 
system who have dared to free themselves at least in one 
spot on this earth from the Jewish-Masonic grip and to 

armed Nazi mob. Since he had always been the approved col- 
lector of funds for nationalist purposes, industrialists furnished 
the money which he in turn handed over to Hitler. Doubtless 
it can be maintained that everything which happened as a 
result of the 1929 alliance was logical and virtually inevitable. 
After 1933, Hugenberg still believed that Hitler was 'safe' 
and 'sensible.' He himself was a member of the Cabinet which 
governed after the fateful 2ist of March. A few months later, 
he was out. 

A defense of Mussolini. Yet oddly enough II Duce's ablest 
protagonists in Germany were Jews Theodor Wolff, of the 
Tabeblatt, and Emil Ludwig. 



700 MEIN KAMPF 

put up a nationalistic resistance against this international 
world poisoning. But it was too tempting for weak char- 
acters simply to trim their sails with the wind and to 
capitulate in the face of the clamor of public opinion. And, 
it was a capitulation indeed! Although people with their 
inner mendacity and baseness may not want to admit it, 
perhaps not even to themselves, yet it remains the truth 
that it was only cowardice and fear of popular opinion, 
stirred up by the Jew, that made them join. All other 
reasons are miserable excuses of the little sinner, conscious 
of his guilt. 

There it was necessary to pull the movement sharply 
around with an iron fist in order to guard it against destruc- 
tion by this direction. To try suc,h an about-face in the 
moment when public opinion, fanned by all driving forces, 
is burning only in one direction, is indeed not very popular 
for the moment, it is even almost mortally dangerous for 
the one who is daringly courageous. But not few men in 
history have been stoned at such moments for an action for 
which posterity found later every reason to thank them on 
its knees. 

It is with this that a movement has to reckon and not 
with the momentary applause of the present. It may very 
well be that even in such hours an individual is seized with 
fear; but he must never forget that after every such hour 
salvation will eventually come, and that a movement that 
wants to renew a world has not to serve the moment, but 
the future. 

Thereby one can state that the greatest and most far- 
reaching successes in history are mostly those that in their 
beginning found the least amount of understanding, because 
they stood in sharpest opposition to the general public 
opinion, to its insight and to its will. 

This we were able to experience even then, on the firtt 
day of our public appearance. We have certainly not 



THE STRUGGLE OF THE EARLY DAYS 701 

'curried the favor of the masses/ but we have stood up 
against the folly of this people, everywhere. Nearly always 
it was the case that in those years I stepped in front of an 
assembly of people who believed in the contrary of what I 
intended to say, and who desired the contrary of what I 
believed in. Then it was the task of two hours to lift two 
or three thousand people out of their previous conviction, 
to smash blow by blow the foundation of their previous 
opinions and finally to lead them over to the soil of our con- 
victions and of our view of life. 

In those days I learned something important in a short 
time, namely, to strike the weapon of reply from the enemy's 
hand myself. One soon found out that our enemies, espe- 
cially in the person of their debaters, appeared with quite a 
definite 'repertoire 1 in which ever-recurring objections were 
raised against our assertions, so that the similarity of this 
procedure pointed to a definite, uniform schooling. And 
indeed it was so. Here we had a chance to become ac- 
quainted with the incredible discipline of our opponents' 
propaganda, and still today it is my pride to have found 
the means not only for making this propaganda ineffective 
but also for beating finally its very makers. Two years later 
I was master in this craft. 

It was important to see clearly in advance of each single 
speech the probable contents and the form of the objections 
that might be expected during the discussion and then 
completely to pick them to pieces in one's own speech. 
Thereby it was advisable to mention at once the possible 
objections and to prove their untenability; thus a listener 
who had come, although stuffed with the objections he had 
been taught, but otherwise with an honest heart, was won 
more easily by the refutation of the doubts that had been 
impressed into his memory. The material he had been 
taught was automatically refuted and his attention was 
attracted more and more by the speech. 



702 MEIN KAMPF 

This was the reason why, as early as after my first speech 
about the 'Peace Treaty of Versailles' which I had held 
when still a so-called 'training man' before the troops, 1 
changed this speech so that I now spoke about the ' Peace 
Treaties of Brest-Li tovsk and Versailles.' For even after 
the shortest time, even in the course of the discussion about 
my first speech, I was able to ascertain that in reality people 
did not know anything about the peace treaty of Breit- 
Litovsk, but that the skillful propaganda of their parties 
had succeeded in presenting just this treaty as one of the 
most shameful acts of rape in the world. It had to be attrib- 
uted to the consistency with which the great masses were 
served again and again with this lie that millions of Germans 
saw in the peace treaty of Versailles only a justified retribu- 
tion for the crime we had committed at Brest-Litovsk, and 
that therefore they considered any fight against Versailles 
an injustice and sometimes remained in the most sincere 
moral indignation. And this was, among others, the cause 
why the shameless and monstrous word ' reparations ' began 
to make its home in Germany. This most mendacious 
hypocrisy appeared to millions of our harried fellow citizens 
really as the execution of a higher justice. Terrible, yet 
it was so. The best proof of this was furnished by the suc- 
cess of the propaganda, introduced by me, against the peace 
treaty of Versailles which I had heralded by an enlighten- 
ment about the treaty of Brest-Litovsk. I contrasted the 
two peace treaties, compared them point by point, demon- 
strated the truly actually limitless humaneness of the one 
treaty as contrasted with the inhuman cruelty of the second, 
with a telling result. In those days I spoke about this sub- 
ject in meetings of two thousand people, where often I was 
met by hostile glances from three thousand six hundred 
eyes. And three hours later I had before me a surging 
crowd filled with most sacred indignation and utter wrath. 
Once more a great lie had been torn out of the brains and 



THE STRUGGLE OF THE EARLY DAYS 703 

the hearts of a multitude counting thousands and in its 
stead a truth had been implanted. 

In those days I considered the two lectures, namely, 
'The True Causes of the World War' and 'The Peace 
Treaties of Brest-Litovsk and Versailles,' the most impor- 
tant ones, so that I repeated them again and again dozens 
,of times in ever new formulations, till at last a definite, 
clear and uniform conception was spread about this point 
among the people from which the movement took its first 
members. 

In addition, these meetings were of benefit to me in that 
gradually I turned into a speaker for mass meetings, that 
I became familiar with the pathos and the gesture which 
the great room, holding a thousand people, demands. 

Except for small circles, as already stressed, I saw in 
those days no enlightenment in this direction on the part 
of those parties which today boast and behave as though it 
had been they who brought about a change in public opin- 
ion. But if actually a so-called national politician was 
making somewhere a speech to this effect, then it was only 
in circles which themselves for the most part already held 
his opinions and where what he brought forth was at the 
utmost a strengthening of their own conviction. But this 
did not matter in those days, but what mattered was 
exclusively to win by propaganda and enlightenment those 
people who so far, by virtue of their education and under- 
standing, stood on hostile ground. 

It may seem odd, but many Germans maintained and still 
maintain that the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk was eminently 
humane and reasonable. On the other hand, Nationalist 
speakers carefully avoided mentioning the less widely publicized 
Treaty of Bucharest,. signed with Rumania. By comparison 
with that, the Treaty of Versailles was an expression of frater- 
nal affection. 



704 MEIN KAMPF 

We even put leaflets into the service of this enlighten- 
ment. When still with the army I had written a leaflet con- 
trasting the peace treaties of Brest-Litovsk and Versailles, 
which was spread in very large editions. Later I took over 
parts of this stock for the party and here too the effect was 
good. As a whole, the first meetings were distinguished by 
the fact that the tables were covered with all kinds of leaflets, 
newspapers, and pamphlets, etc. But the main emphasis 
was put on the spoken word. And actually only the latter 
alone is in a position to bring about really great changes, 
and that for general psychological reasons. 

I have already mentioned in the first volume that all 
enormous world revolutionary events have not been brought 
about by the written, but by the spoken word. This 
entailed a lengthy discussion by a part of the press, whereby 
of course, especially on the part of our bourgeois wise- 
crackers, such an assertion was very sharply opposed. But 
the very reason why this was done disproves the doubters. 
For the bourgeois intelligentsia protests against such an 
opinion only for the reason that it obviously lacks the energy 
and the ability of mass influence by the spoken word, since 
one had turned more and more towards purely literary 
activity and renounced the really agitatory activity of 
speech. But such a habit, in the course of time, is bound to 
lead to what marks the bourgeoisie today, namely, the loss 
of the psychological instinct for mass effect and mass in- 
fluence. 

While the speaker receives from the mass before which 
he speaks a continuous correction of his lecture, in so far 
as he can uninterruptedly read from the faces of his listeners 
how far they are able to follow his arguments with under- 
standing, and whether the impression and the effect of his 
words lead to the desired goal, the writer does not know hia 
readers at all. For this reason he will, from the beginning, 
not aim at a certain crowd before his eyes, but he will keep 



SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SPOKEN WORD 705 

his arguments on quite general lines. By this he loses, to a 
certain degree, psychological finesse, and consequently sup- 
pleness. In general, therefore, a brilliant speaker will still 
be able to write better than a brilliant writer will be able to 
speak, unless he trains himself continuously in this art. 
To this must be added that the mass of people is lazy in 
itself, that they lazily remain within the course of old habits 
and that by themselves they do not like to take up anything 
written unless it corresponds to what one believes oneself, 
and furnishes what one hopes for. Therefore a pamphlet 
with a certain tendency will in most cases only be read by 
people who themselves must be counted on its side. At the 
utmost, only a leaflet or a poster, by their brevity, can count 
on finding attention for a moment with one who thinks 
differently. Far greater chances has the picture in all its 
varieties up to and including the motion picture. Here 
man has to work still less with his brains; it is enough to 
view, perhaps to read a few very short texts, and thus many 
will be far more ready to take in a pictorial presentation 
than to read a lengthy piece of writing. The picture in a 
far shorter time, I would almost say at one blow, furnishes 
man with an enlightenment which he receives from literature 
only after tedious reading. 

But the most essential point is that a pamphlet never 
knows in whose hands it will come and that yet it has to 
retain its definite form. Generally, the effect will be the 
greater the more the form corresponds to the mental stand- 
ard and the nature of just those who will be its readers. A 
book that is intended for the broad masses must therefore 
try from the beginning to have in style and standard an 
effect different from a work intended for intellectually 
higher classes. 

Only by this kind of adaptability the written word ap- 
proaches the spoken word. The speaker may for instance, 
treat the same subject as that of a book, yet if he is a great 



706 MEIN KAMPF 

and ingenious popular speaker he will hardly twice repeat 
in the same manner one and the same subject matter and 
material. He will always let himself be carried by the great 
masses in such a manner that he senses just those words that 
he needs in order to speak to the hearts of his respective 
listeners. But if he errs, no matter how slightly, he has 
always before him the living correction. As mentioned 
previously, he is able to read from the expressions of his 
listeners, firstly, whether they understand what he speaks, 
secondly, whether they are able to follow what has been said, 
and thirdly, in how far he has convinced them of the correct- 
ness of what has been said. If he sees firstly that they 
do not understand him, then he will become so primitive 
and clear in his explanation that even the least intelligent 
is bound to understand him, if he feels secondly that 
tliey are not able to follow him, then he will build up his 
ideas so carefully and slowly that even the weakest among 
them all does not remain behind any longer, and thirdly 
as soon as he guesses that they do not seem to be con- 
vinced of the correctness of what he has said he will repeat 
this so often and in so many new examples, he himself 
will bring in their objections which he feels although they 
have not been uttered, and he will refute them and disperse 
them till finally even the last group of an opposition, merely 
by its attitude and its expressions, lets him recognize its 
capitulation in the face of his argumentation. 

Here one has to deal not infrequently with overcoming 
prejudices of people, which are not founded in their reason, 
but which are most subconscious, supported only by feeling. 
It is a thousand times more difficult to overcome the barrier 
of instinctive aversion, of hatred conditioned by feeling, of 
prejudiced rejection than is the correction of a faulty or 
erroneous scientific opinion. Wrong conceptions and infer- 
ior knowledge can be abolished by instruction, but never 
obstacles of sentiment. Here solely an appeal to these 



SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SPOKEN WORD 707 

mysterious forces themselves can be effective; and this the 
writer can hardly ever do, but almost exclusively only the 
speaker. 

The most striking proof of this is furnished by the fact 
that despite an often very skilfully made-up bourgeois press 
that swamps our people in unheard-of editions of millions, 
'this press was not able to prevent the great masses from 
becoming the sharpest enemy of just this bourgeois world. 
The whole flood of newspapers and all the books that in- 
tellectualism produces year by year run off from the millions 
of the lowest classes like water from oiled leather. This can 
prove only two things : either the incorrectness of the con- 
tents of this entire written produce of our bourgeois world 
or the impossibility of penetrating to the heart of the masses 
merely by literature. True, especially in cases when this 
very literature is so little psychologically oriented as is the 
case here. 

One must not reply (as was tried by a great German 
national newspaper of Berlin) that just Marxism itself 
furnishes the proof against this assertion by its literature, 
chiefly by the effect of the groundwork of Karl Marx. 
Hardly ever has one tried in a more superficial manner to 
support an erroneous opinion. What gave Marxism its 
astounding power over the broad masses is in no way the 
formal work of Jewish labor of thinking, put down in 
writing, but rather the colossal oratorical wave of propa- 
ganda that took possession of the masses in the course of 
the years. Of one hundred thousand German workers, not 
one hundred, on the average, know this work, which always 
has been studied by a thousand times more intellectuals 
and especially Jews than by genuine followers of the move- 
ment from the great lower classes. This work has actually 
not been written for the great masses, but exclusively for the 
intellectual leaders of that Jewish machine of world con- 
quest; this, then, was fired with quite a different material; 



708 MEIN KAMPF 

the press. For it is this which distinguishes the Marxist 
press from our bourgeois press: the Marxist press is written 
by agitators, and the bourgeois press would like to produce 
agitation by writers. fThe Grub-Street Social Democratic 
editor, who almost invariably comes from the meeting-hall 
into the publishing office, knows his customers as no other 
man does. But the bourgeois scribbler, who steps out of his 
study before the great masses, is sickened merely by their 
fumes and therefore he faces them helplessly also with the 
written word. 

What has won the millions of laborers for Marxism is less 
the literary work of Marxist patriotic writers, but rather 
the untiring and truly enormous propaganda work of tens 
of thousands of untiring agitators, beginning with the great 
apostle of harassment down to the smallest labor union 
official and the confidant and discussion orator; these are 
the hundreds of thousands of meetings where these popular 
speakers, standing upon the table in a smoky tavern, 
drummed upon the masses and thus knew how to obtain 
an unsurpassed knowledge of this human material, some- 
thing that put them all the more in the position to choose 
the most correct weapons for the attack against the fortress 
of public opinion. And there were further the gigantic mass 
demonstrations, these marches of hundreds of thousands, 
that branded the small, impoverished man with the proud 
conviction that although being a little worm, he was never- 
theless a member of a great dragon under whose flaming 
breath one day the much-hated bourgeois world would go 
up in fire and flames and the proletarian dictatorship 
would celebrate its ultimate and final victory. 

From such propaganda came forth those people who 
were ready and prepared to read a Social Democratic press, 
but a press that in its turn is not written but spoken. For 
while in the bourgeois camp professors and litterateurs, 
theorists and writers of all kinds try at times also to sueak, 



SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SPOKEN WORD 709 

in Marxism the speakers try sometimes also to write. And 
particularly the Jew who comes here under special con- 
sideration, by virtue of his mendacious dialectical skill and 
agility, even as a writer, will be an agitating orator rather 
than a creative writer. 

This is the reason why the bourgeois newspaper world 
(to say nothing of the fact that for the greater part it is 
Judaized and therefore has no interest in really enlightening 
the great masses) is not able to exercise the slightest in- 
fluence on the attitude of the broadest layers of our people.^ 

How difficult it is to overthrow emotional prejudices, 
moods, sentiments, etc., and to replace them by others, 
from how many immeasurable influences and conditions 
the success in this depends, this the sensitive orator can tell 
from the fact that even the time of the day in which the 
speech takes place can be of decisive influence on its effect. 
The same speech, the same speaker, the same subject have 
an entirely different effect at ten o'clock in the morning, 
at three o'clock in the afternoon or in the evening. I per- 
sonally, when still a beginner, appointed meetings for the 
morning, and I remember especially one demonstration 
which we held as a protest 'against the oppression of 
German territories' at the Miinchner-Kindl- Keller. In 
those days this was Munich's greatest hall and the risk 
appeared very great. In order to facilitate specially the 
visit to the adherents of the movement and to all who 
otherwise came, I arranged the meeting for a Sunday 
morning, at ten o'clock. The result was depressing, but at 
the same time extremely instructive: the hall filled, the 
impression truly overwhelming, but the atmosphere icy: 
nobody warmed up, and I personally as the speaker, deeply 
unhappy, felt that I was not able to establish any connec- 
tion, not even the slightest contact with my listeners. I 
believe that I did not speak worse than on other occasions; 
but the effect seemed to be equal to naught. I left the meet- 



710 MEIN KAMPF 

ing, entirely unsatisfied, but richer by an experience. Tests 
which I later carried out in the same way, led to the same 
result. 

This must not be surprising. One should go to a theater 
and see a performance at three in the afternoon and the 
same performance with the same cast at eight in the evening, 
and one will be astonished at the difference in effect and 
impression. A person with delicate feeling and with the 
ability to make this atmosphere clear to himself will im- 
mediately be able to find that the impression of the after- 
noon performance is not so great as that of the evening 
performance. The same statement applies even to a movie. 
This is important for the reason that for the theater one 
could say that in the afternoon the actor would perhaps 
not trouble himself as much as in the evening. But the 
movie is no different in the afternoon from at nine in the 
evening. No, it is the time itself that exercises here a certain 
effect, exactly as does the room upon me. There are rooms 
which leave one cold for reasons that are only difficult to 
recognize, which put up the most serious resistance to a 
creation of atmosphere. Also traditional memories and 
images which exist in man, are able to determine an im- 
pression decisively. Thus a performance of 'Parsifal' at 
Bayreuth will always have an effect different from that in 
any other place in the world. The mysterious magic of the 
house on the Festspielhuegel of the old city of margraves 
cannot be replaced or made up by externals. 

All these cases involve encroachments upon man's free- 
dom of will. This applies, of course, most of all to meetings 
to which people with a contrary orientation of will are 
coming, and who now have to be won for new intentions* 
It seems that in the morning and even during the day men's 
will power revolts with highest energy against an attempt 
at being forced under another's will and another's opinion. 
In the evening, however, they succumb more easily to the 



SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SPOKEN WORD 711 

dominating force of a stronger will. For truly every such 
meeting presents a wrestling match between two opposed 
forces. The superior oratorical talent of a domineering 
apostolic nature will now succeed more easily in winning 
for the new will people who themselves have in turn experi- 
enced a weakening of their force of resistance in the most 
hatural way, than people who still have full command of 
the energies of their minds and their will power. 

The same purpose serves also the artificially created and 
yet mysterious dusk of the Catholic churches, the burning 
candles, incense, censers, etc. 

t In this wrestling match between the orator and the op- 
ponent to be converted, the speaker will gradually obtain 
that wonderful sensibility for the psychological conditions 
of propaganda which the writer nearly always lacks. Liter- 
ature, therefore, by its more limited effect, will in general 
serve more the preservation, strengthening and deepening 
of an already existing attitude or opinion. All really great 
historical changes have not been brought about by the 
written word, but have at the utmost been accompanied by 
it. 

One must not think that the French Revolution would 
ever have come about by philosophical theories, if it had 
not found an army of instigators, led by demagogues of 
the grandest style, who whipped up the passions of the tor- 
tured people, till finally that terrible volcanic eruption took 
place that paralyzed the whole of Europe with terror. And 
just the same, the greatest revolutionary change of most 
recent times, the bolshevistic revolution in Russia, has not 
come about by Lenin's writings, but by the hate-creating 
oratorical activity of countless greatest and smallest apostles 
of instigation. 

The people of illiterates has really not been enthused 
for the communist revolution by the theoretical literature 
of a Karl Marx, but only by the glittering heaven that 



712 MEIN KAMPF 

thousands of agitators, although all of them in the service 

of an idea, described to the people. 

This has always been and will be so forever.** 
It fully corresponds to the cracked seclusion from the 
world of our German intelligentsia to believe that the 
writer is necessarily superior in mind to the speaker. This 
conception is superbly illustrated by a criticism of the 
already previously mentioned national newspaper in which 
it is stated that one is so frequently disappointed to see 
suddenly in print the speech of a well-known great speaker. 
This reminds me of another criticism which fell into my 
hands in the course of the War; it scrutinized, as with the 
magnifying glass, the speeches of Lloyd George, then still 
minister of munitions, and it came to the intelligent finding 
that these speeches were intellectually and scientifically 
inferior, and for the rest hackneyed and obvious products. 
Later, I personally obtained some of these speeches in the 
form of a small booklet and I had to laugh loudly at the 
fact that a normal German knight of the pen had no under- 
standing for these psychological masterpieces of influencing 
the soul of the masses. This man judged these speeches 
exclusively according to the impression that they left on his 
own conceit while the great English demagogue had directed 
them exclusively at exercising the greatest possible influence 
on the mass of his listeners and in the widest sense on the 
entire lower English people. Looked at from this viewpoint, 
the speeches of this Englishman were the most wonderful 
achievements, as they gave proof of an actually astounding 
knowledge of the soul of the greatest layers of the people. 
Their effect, then, was a truly telling one. 
With this one should compare the helpless stammering 

these 



of course more intellectual, but in reality they showed only 
this man's inability to speak to his people which he really 
did not know. Nevertheless, the average sparrow brain of 



SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SPOKEN WORD 713 

a German scribbler, scientifically of course most educated, 
achieves the feat of evaluating the mentality of the English 
minister according to the impression that a speech, aiming 
at mass influence, leaves in his soul that is entirely calcified 
by knowledge, and of comparing it with that of a German 
statesman whose intellectual babble finds in him of course 
a more receptive soil. That, where genius is concerned, he 
was not only adequate but a thousand times superior to a 
Bethmann-Hollweg, Lloyd George proved by finding in his 
speeches that form and those expressions which opened to 
him the heart of his people and which made this people 
ultimately serve entirely his will. The very primitiveness 
of this language, the originality of its expressions and the 
application of easily understandable, most simple examples, 
contain the proof of the superior political ability of this 
Englishman, f Far I have to measure the speech of a statesman 
to his people not by the impression that it leaves with a university 
professor, but according to the effect that it exercises on the 
people. And this alone also furnishes the measure of a 
speaker's genius. 

* 

The astounding development of our movement, which 
was founded out of nothing only a few years ago and which 
even today is believed worthy of being persecuted most 

These remarks testify to a shrewd sense of the weaknesses 
of democracy, especially in a country not inured to democratic 
political processes. In countries like the United States and 
Great Britain, the demagogue is usually restricted to a small 
area because the machinery at the disposal of great political 
parties is not available to him. Moreover, in these countries 
audiences shrink unless the speaker says something new each 
time. In short, a coat of the varnish of cynicism seems to pro- 
tect a veteran democracy against its own most insidious 
invention. 



714 MEIN KAMPF 

sharply by all internal and external enemies of our people, 
must be attributed to the constant consideration and appli- 
cation of these observations. 

Important as the movement's literature may be, yet f in 
our present situation, it will be of greater importance for the 
equal and uniform education of the higher and lower leaders 
than for the winning of adversely oriented masses. Only in 
the rarest cases will a convinced Social Democrat or a 
fanatical communist condescend to secure a National So- 
cialist pamphlet or even a book, to read it and to get from 
it an insight into our conception of life or to study the criti- 
cism of his conception of life. Even a newspaper will be 
read only very rarely, unless it bears from the beginning the 
stamp of partisanship. Besides, this would be of little use, 
for the entire picture of a single copy of a newspaper is so 
chopped up and its effect so splintered that from reading a 
single issue one must not expect any influence upon the 
reader. But one must and should not demand that a person, 
for whom even pennies play a r6le, will now, out of an urge 
for objective enlightenment, subscribe to a hostile news- 
paper permanently. Out of tens of thousands hardly one 
will do so. Only he who is already won for the movement 
will permanently read the organ of the party, as the cur- 
rent news service of his movement. 

The case is quite different with the ' spoken ' leaflet ! This 
will be picked up far more readily by the one or the other, 
especially if he gets it for nothing, and this all the more if 
even the headlines plastically treat a subject that at the 
moment is being discussed by everybody. After looking 
it through more or less thoroughly, such a leaflet may per- 
haps draw his attention to new viewpoints and attitudes, 
perhaps even to a new movement. But also by this, even 
in the most favorable case, only a slight stimulus is given, 
but never a fait accompli. For the leaflet also can only 
timulate or point out something, and its effect will only 



SIGNIFICANCE OF THE SPOKEN WORD 715 

materialize in connection with a later thorough instruction 
and enlightenment of its readers. This, however, is and 
remains always the mass meeting.** 

The mass meeting is necessary if only for the reason that 
in it the individual, who in becoming an adherent of a new 
movement feels lonely and is easily seized with the fear oj 
being alone, receives for the first time the pictures of a greater 
community, something that has a strengthening and encour- 
aging effect on most people. The same man, in the frame of 
a company or a battalion, surrounded by all his comrades, 
would set out on an attack with a lighter heart than he 
would if left entirely to himself. In the crowd he always 
feels a little sheltered even if in reality a thousand reasons 
would speak against it. 

The community of the great demonstration, however, 
strengthens not only the individual, but it also unites and 
helps in creating esprit de corps. The man who, as the first 
representative of a new doctrine, is exposed to serious op- 
pression in his enterprise or his workshop urgently needs 
that strengthening that lies in the conviction of being a 
member and a fighter of a great embracing body. But he 
only received the impression of this corporation at the first 
common mass demonstration. If he steps for the first time 
out of his small workshop or out of the big enterprise, in 
which he feels very small, into the mass meeting and is now 
surrounded by thousands and thousands of people with the 
same conviction, if while looking around he is carried away 
by the powerful effect of the suggestive intoxication and 
the enthusiasm of three or four thousand others, if the 
visible success and the approval of thousands confirm the 
correctness of the new doctrine in his mind and waken for 
the first time the doubt about the truth of his previous 
conviction then he himself succumbs to the magic in- 
fluence of what we call mass suggestion. The will, the 
longing, but also the force of thousands accumulates in 



716 MEIN KAMPF 

every individual. The man who comes to such a meeting 
doubting and hesitating, leaves it confirmed in his mind: 
he has become the member of a community, 
f The National Socialist movement must never forget this, 
and above all it must never become influenced by those 
bourgeois simpletons who know everything better, but who 
nevertheless have gambled away a great State together 
with their own existence, and the rulership of their class. 
Indeed, they are exceedingly cjever, they know everything, 
understand everything only one thing they did not 
understand: that is, to prevent the German people from 
falling into the arms of Marxism. Here they failed most 
wretchedly and most miserably, so that their present con- 
ceit is only bumptiousness that in the form of pride, along 
with stupidity, always grows on the same tree. 

If today these people do not attribute any special value 
to the spoken word, then they do so only because, thank 
the Lord, they have convinced themselves thoroughly by 
now of the ineffectiveness of their own talk.^4- 



CHAPTER VII 

THE STRUGGLE WITH 
THE RED FRONT 



IN 1919-20 and also in 1921, I personally visited so-called 
bourgeois meetings. They always made the same im- 
pression on me as the prescribed spoonful of cod liver oil 
during my youth. One has to take it, and it is supposed to 
be very good, but it tastes horrible! If one would tie the 
German people together with ropes and if one would pull 
them into these bourgeois 'demonstrations 9 by force, and if 
one would lock the doors till after the end of the perform- 
ance, not letting anyone escape, this could perhaps also 
lead to success in the course of several centuries. But I 
have to admit openly that in this case I would probably 
no longer enjoy life and that I no longer would want to be 
a German. But since, God be praised and thanked, one 
cannot do this, one must not be surprised if the healthy 
and unspoilt people avoid 'bourgeois mass meetings' as 
the Devil avoids holy water. 

I got to know them, these prophets of a bourgeois view of 
life, and I am really not surprised but understand why they 
do not attribute any importance to the spoken word. In 
those days I visited meetings of the Democrats, the German 
Nationals, and also of the People's Party (Bavarian Center), 



718 MEIN KAMPF 

What struck my attention at once was the homogeneous 
unity of the listeners. Nearly always it was only party 
members who took part in such a manifestation. The 
entire affair, without discipline, resembled more a yawning 
card club than a meeting of the people that has just gone 
through its greatest revolution. 

In order to preserve this peaceful atmosphere, all that 
could be done was done by the speakers. They spoke, or 
rather they read speeches, in the style of a sophisticated 
newspaper article or of a scientific treatise, they avoided all 
strong language, and now and then they put in a weak 
professorial joke, upon which the honorable committee 
began dutifully to laugh; to laugh not loudly, that means 
provokingly, but dignified, subdued and discreetly. 
t This committee anyway ! 

Once I saw a meeting at the Wagnersaal in Munich; it 
was a demonstration on the occasion of the anniversary of 
the battle of Leipzig. The speech was delivered or read by 
a worthy old gentleman, professor of some university. The 
committee was sitting on the platform. At the left a 
monocle, at the right a monocle, and in between one with- 
out a monocle. All three of them in frock coats so that one 
received the impression either of a court that is just about 
to pronounce sentence, or of a solemn baptism, in any case 
more of a solemn religious ceremony. The so-called speech 
that would perhaps have looked quite well in print was 
simply terrible in its effect. Only three quarters of an hour 
had passed when the entire public found itself in a condi- 
tion of a drowsy trance that was only interrupted by various 
men or women going out, by the rattling caused by the 
waitresses, and by the yawning of more and more of the 
listeners. Three workers who, be it out of curiosity or in 
their capacity of commandeered emissaries, were present 
%X ^Bfc TfcfeaJCK^, fcTv&amp;\*&amp;m&amp; vtaom \ \iad taken my post, 
looked at one another from time to time with ill-concealed 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 719 

grins, and finally they nudged one another with their 
elbows, whereupon they left the hall very quietly. One 
could see that they did not wish to disturb at any price. 
This was indeed not necessary with this society. Finally 
the meeting seemed to draw to its close. After the professor, 
whose voice meanwhile had become weaker and weaker, 
had finished his speech, the leader of the meeting, sitting 
between the two monocles, arose and roared at the 'Ger- 
man sisters' and 'brothers' who were present how great 
his feeling of thanks was and how great their sentiment in 
this direction ought to be for the unique and glorious 
lecture that Professor X had just given them, in a manner 
that was as enjoyable as it was thorough and deeply 
penetrating, and that in the truest meaning of the word 
was an 'inner experience,' even a 'deed.' It would mean a 
profanation of this solemn hour if one were to let a discus- 
sion follow this lucid presentation, so that therefore, speak- 
ing for all those present, he would not open such a discus- 
sion, and instead he asked them all to rise and to join in 
the call ' Wir sind tin einig Volk von Bruedern ' [We are a 
united folk of brothers], etc. Finally, in conclusion, he 
asked us to sing the ' Deutschlandlied. ' 

And then they sang, and it appeared to me as though 
already with the second verse the voices were becoming 
fewer and only swelled up again mightily at the chorus, 
and with the third verse this impression became stronger, so 
that I thought that not all of them were quite sure of the 
words. 

But what does this matter, if such a song, ardently sung 
by a German national soul, rings up to heaven! 

Thereupon the meeting broke up, that is, every one 
hurried to get out quickly, some to a glass of beer, others 
to a caf6, and still others out into the open air. 

Yes, indeed, out into the open air, out! This was my sole 
feeling. And this is to serve the glorification of the heroic 



720 MEIN KAMPF 

battling of hundreds of thousands of Prussians and Ger- 
mans? What the hell, and again what the hell! 

The government, of course, may like something like 
that. This is naturally a 'peaceful' meeting. There the 
Minister for Quiet and Order need really not fear that the 
waves of enthusiasm might suddenly break the authorita- 
tive measure of bourgeois decency; that suddenly, in the 
intoxication of enthusiasm, people might pour forth from 
the hall, not in order to hurry to caf6s or taverns, but in 
order to march through the streets in rows of fours, with 
measured tread, singing ' Deutschland hoch in Ehren' in 
order to annoy a police force in need of rest. 

No, with such citizens one can be satisfied. &lt;* 



Compared with this, the National Socialist meetings 
were indeed not 'peaceful* meetings. Here the waves of 
two views of life clashed, and the meetings did not end with 
some patriotic song lamely rattled off, but with the fanatical 
outburst of national passion. 

From the very beginning, it was important to introduce 
blind discipline into our meetings and absolutely to safe- 
guard the authority of the meeting's leaders. For what we 
discussed was not the powerless chit-chat of a bourgeois 
'speaker/ but in content and form it was always suitable 
for provoking the opponent to reply. And there were 
opponents in out meetings! How many times did they 
come in huge crowds, individual hecklers among them and 
showing on all faces the conviction : today we will make an 
end of you ! 

Indeed, how many times in those days had they been led 
in literally in columns, our friends of the red color, with the 
previously definitely instructed task, to blow up the entire 
show on that night and to make an end of the whole affair. 
And how many times was everything touch and go, and 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 711 

only the ruthless energy of our meetings' leaders and the 
brutal recklessness of our guards of the meeting was able 
to thwart again and again the enemy's attacks. 

And they had every reason to feel provoked, 
t The red color of our billposters alone drew them into 
our meeting halls. The normal bourgeoisie was genuinely 
horrified at the fact that we too had taken up the red of 
the bolsheviks, and in this they saw a very ambiguous 
affair. The German national minds quietly whispered to 
each other the suspicion that fundamentally we too were 
only a variety of Marxism, perhaps nothing but disguised 
Marxists, or rather Socialists. For even today these heads 
have not understood the difference between Socialism and 
Marxism. Especially when, in addition, they discovered 
that in our meetings we principally did not address 4 ladies 
and gentlemen' but only 'fellow citizens,' and that among 
ourselves we spoke only of party members, the Marxist ghost 
seemed to be proved for many of our enemies. How often 
we shouted with laughter at these stupid bourgeois cowards, 
in the face of the intelligent guessing at our origin, our 
intentions and our goal ! &lt;* 

We chose the red color of our posters after exacting and 
thorough reflection, in order to provoke the leftists by this, 
to bring them to indignation and to induce them to come 
to our meetings, if only to break them up, so that in this 
way we were at least enabled to speak to these people. 

Now it was a treat to trace, in those years, the perplexity 
and also the helplessness of our enemies in their perpetually 
wavering tactics. First they asked their adherents to take 
no notice of us and to avoid our meetings. 

This was generally followed. 

But since in the course of time various individuals came 
nevertheless, and as this number slowly but gradually 
increased, and the impression of our doctrine was obvious, 
the leaders gradually grew nervous and restless, and they 



722 MEIN KAMPF 

became obsessed with the conviction that one should not 
merely watch this development forever, but that an end 
must be put to it by terror. 

Thereafter they appealed to the 'class-conscious prole- 
tarians' to go in masses to our meetings, in order to strike 
the representatives of the 'monarchist, reactionary disturb- 
ance 1 with the fists of the proletariat. 

Then suddenly our meetings were crowded with workers 
as early as three quarters of an hour before the opening. 
They resembled a powder keg that might blow up at any 
moment and to which the burning fuse has been attached. 
Yet it always came about differently. The people came as 
our enemies and they left, although not yet our adherents, 
but reflecting, even critically examining the correctness of 
their own doctrine. But gradually it came about that after 
my three hours 1 speech followers and opponents melted 
together into one enthusiastic mass. Then every signal 
for a blowup was in vain. Thereupon the leaders became 
all the more afraid, and now they turned again to those 
who had previously opposed this policy and who now, with 
a certain appearance of justification, pointed at their 
opinion that the only correct thing to do was to forbid the 
worker in principle to attend our meetings. 

Then they came no more, or at least fewer of them. But 
after a short time the whole game began again from the 
beginning. 

The prohibition was nevertheless not observed, the com- 
rades came more and more often, and finally the adherents 
of the radical policy were victorious again. Our meetings 
were to be broken up. 

If then after two, three, frequently also eight or ten 
meetings it became apparent that the blowup was easier 
said than done, and the result of each single meeting meant 
a crumbling away of the red fighting troops, then suddenly 
there came again the other watchword: 'Proletarians and 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 723 

comrades/ Avoid the meetings of the National Socialist dis- 
turbers/ 9 

The same, perpetually changing policy was also found in 
the red press. First one tried to pass us by in silence, in 
order to convince oneself thereafter of the futility of this 
attempt and again to take up the contrary. Every day we 
were ' mentioned ' in some way, and that mostly in order to 
make clear to the worker the absolute ridiculousness of our 
whole existence. But after a certain time the gentlemen 
had to feel nevertheless that this not only did not injure us, 
but that, on the contrary, it was advantageous to us, since 
naturally many individuals asked themselves why one 
devoted so many words to an affair if it was so ridiculous. 
People became curious. Thereupon one suddenly turned 
about-face and for some time one began to treat us as 
genuine chief criminals of humanity. Article after article, 
in which our criminality was explained and proved again 
and again, scandalous stories, although produced out of 
nothing from beginning to end, were to do the rest. But 
after a short time one seemed to have convinced oneself of 
the ineffectiveness of these attacks as well ; fundamentally, 
this only helped to concentrate general attention on us all 
the more. 

In those days I took the viewpoint: no matter whether 
they laugh or swear at us, whether they present us as fools 
or as criminals; the main thing is that they mention us, 
that they occupy themselves with us again and again, and 
that gradually, in the eyes of the workers, we appear 
actually as that power with which alone one has to reckon 
at the time. What we really are and what we really want, 
this we will not fail to show to the rabble of the Jewish press 
when the day comes. 

One reason why in those days our meetings were hardly 
ever broken up directly was the quite incredible cowardice 
of the leaders of our opponents. In all critical cases they 



724 MEIN KAMPF 

sent forward some little Tom, Dick or Harry or they waited 
for the result of the disruption outside the meeting-halls. 

Nearly always we were very well informed about the 
intentions of these gentlemen. Not only because we our- 
selves, for reasons of expediency, had left many party 
members inside the red ranks, but because the red wire- 
pullers themselves were seized with a talkativeness, very 
useful to us in this case, as unfortunately it is found 
very frequently among our German people. They could 
not keep their mouths shut when they had hatched out 
something like that, and besides they usually began to 
cackle even before the egg was laid. Thus, often and often 
we had met the most detailed preparations, without the 
red detachments for the breakup having the slightest ink- 
ling how soon they were to be thrown out. 

This time forced us to take into our own hands the pro- 
tection of our meetings; one can never count on the pro- 
tection of the authorities; on the contrary, it always benefits 
only the disturbers, as experience shows. For the only 
actual success of intervention by the authorities, with the 
aid of the police, was at the utmost that the meeting was 
dissolved, that means closed. And this was indeed solely 
the aim and the intention of the opposing disturbers. 

In this the police has developed a practice that represents 
the grossest injustice that one can imagine. For, if the 
authorities learn by some threats that there exists the 
danger of a breakup of a meeting, the police do not arrest 
those who threaten to do so, but it forbids the others, who 
are innocent, to hold the meeting, and of such wisdom a 
normal policeman's intellect is very proud. They call it a 
1 precautionary measure for the prevention of an unlawful- 
ness.' 

t The determined gangster, therefore, is at any time free 
to thwart the political activity of a respectable man. The 
State authority, in the name of quiet and order, bows before 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 725 

the gangster and requests the other fellow not to provoke 
him. Therefore, when National Socialists wanted to hold 
meetings at certain places and when the unions declared 
that this would lead to resistance on the part of their 
members, then the police by no means put these black- 
mailing fellows behind lock and key, but it forbade us to 
hold the meeting. In innumerable cases these organs of 
the law had even the incredible shamelessness to inform 
us of this in writing. 

If one wanted to protect oneself against such eventualities, 
then one had to take care that every attempt at a disturb- 
ance was nipped in the bud. 

But here the following also comes into consideration:^ 
Every meeting that receives its protection exclusively by the 
police discredits the sponsors in the eyes of the great masses. 
Meetings that can be guaranteed to be held only through 
the presence of a great police detachment do not attract 
people, in so far as a visibly existing force is always the 
presumption for winning the lower classes of a people, 
t Exactly as a courageous man will win women's hearts 
more easily than a coward, thus also an heroic movement 
wins the heart of a people more readily than a movement 
of cowards that is kept alive only through the protection of 
the police. 

Especially for the latter reason the young party itself 
had to take care that it represented its existence, protected 
itself and broke the enemy's terror. 

Hereby the protection of the meetings could be built up 
in two directions: 

(i) By an energetic and psychologically correct manage- 
ment of the meeting. 

If in those days we National Socialists wanted to hold a 
meeting, we were its masters and no one else. And we have 
most sharply emphasized this right of mastery uninterrupt- 
edly, every minute. Our enemies knew very well that in 



726 MEIN KAMPF 

those days, he who provoked was thrown out ruthlessly, 
and even if we had been only half a dozen among half a 
thousand. In the meetings of those days, especially out- 
side Munich, fifteen or sixteen National Socialists were out- 
weighed by five, six, seven or eight hundred enemies. Yet 
we would not have tolerated any provocation, and the 
visitors of our meetings knew very well that we would 
have preferred far more to be killed than to capitulate.^- 
And it happened more than once that a handful of party 
members has heroically struggled to victory against a 
yowling and beating red majority. 

In such cases it was certain that these fifteen or twenty 
men would finally have been overpowered. But the others 
knew that before this at least twice or thrice as many of 
their skulls would have been smashed, and this they did not 
like to risk. 

f Here we have tried to learn and have indeed learned from 
studying the Marxist and bourgeois technique of meetings. 

The Marxists always had a blind discipline, so that on 
the bourgeois side the idea of breaking up a Marxist meeting 
could never arise. The reds occupied themselves all the 
more with such intentions. In time they had not only 
achieved a certain virtuosity in this field, but finally, in 
great parts of the Reich, they went so far as to call a non- 
Marxist meeting, in itself a provocation of the proletariat ; 
especially whenever the wirepullers scented that at the 
meeting the roll of their own sins might be reckoned up, 
in order to reveal how basely they were lying and were 
cheating the people. Thus, as soon as such a meeting was 
announced, the entire red press raised a furious clamor, 
whereby not infrequently they who disdained the law in 
principle, appealed first of all to the authorities with the 
urgent, and threatening request immediately to prohibit 
this 'provocation of the proletariat/ 'in order to prevent 
greater evil/ They chose their language and achieved their 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 727 

success according to the size of the official blockhead. But 
if, as an exception, such a position was held by a genuine 
German official, not an official creature, and if he rejected 
the impudent demands, then there followed the notorious 
appeal not to tolerate such a 'provocation of the proletariat* 
but to appear in masses at a meeting, on such and such a 
date, in order to ' put a stop to the disgraceful activity of 
the bourgeois creatures with the help of the horny fist 
of the proletarian.' 

Now, one has to have seen such a bourgeois meeting, 
one has to have experienced its leadership in all its misery 
and its fear! Many a time a meeting was flatly called off 
upon such threats. But always the fear was so great that 
instead of at eight o'clock one rarely could open the meeting 
before a quarter to, or at nine o'clock. The chairman, with 
twenty-nine compliments, tried to make it clear to the 
'gentlemen of the opposition' present how much he and 
all the others present rejoiced in their minds (pure lie!) 
at the visit of men who not yet stood on their ground, be- 
cause only by a mutual discussion (which he thereby guar- 
anteed most solemnly from the very beginning) could the 
conceptions be brought nearer to one another, could 
the mutual understanding be awakened and a bridge be 
thrown between them. Whereby, in addition, he assured 
them that it was not at all the intention of the meeting to 
lure people away from their present conviction. On no 
account was this so, everyone was allowed to seek happiness 
according to his own fashion, but he should also allow the 
others to seek their happiness and therefore he asked that 
the speaker, whose arguments would not be very long 
anyhow, should be allowed to finish undisturbed, so that 
the world would not be offered, by this meeting too, the 
shameful spectacle of the internal German fratricidal quar- 
rel... ugh! 

But the kinsfolk from the left had in most cases no 



728 MEIN KAMPF 

understanding for this; even before the speaker had 
started, he had to leave the field under a shower of vilest 
abuses; and not infrequently one had the impression as 
though he were even grateful to Fate for the quick abbre- 
viation of the torturing procedure. Such toreadors of 
bourgeois meetings left the arena under a terrific noise, 
provided they did not fall down the stairs with their heads 
knocked in, something that happened in most cases. 

For the Marxists it was therefore indeed something new 
when and how we National Socialists staged our first 
meetings. They entered with the conviction that of course 
they could repeat also with us the little game they had 
played so often. 'Today we make an end.' How did not 
many a one, upon entering our meeting, shout this sentence 
boastingly to another one, in order to find himself, even 
before he could shout it a second time, outside the entrance 
of the hall. 

First, the very management of the meeting was different 
with us. We did not ask anyone graciously to tolerate our 
lecture, and, from the beginning, no one was guaranteed 
an endless discussion, but it was simply stated that we were 
the masters of the meeting, that consequently we had the 
authority, and that everyone who would dare to make only 
so much as one interrupting shout, would mercilessly be 
thrown out by the same door by which he had come in. 
That further we had to reject all responsibility for such a 
fellow; if there remained time enough and if we deemed fit, 
we would allow a discussion to take place ; if not, then there 
would be no discussion, and now the speaker, party member 
Blank, has the floor. 

They were even astonished at this. 

Secondly, we had at our disposal a tightly organized de- 
tachment for the protection of the meeting. With the 
bourgeois parties this protective attachment or rather, this 
supervising service, usually consisted of gentlemen who 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 729 

thought that owing to the dignity of their age, they had a 
certain claim to authority and respect. But since the masses 
encouraged by Marxism did not heed age, authority and 
respect in the least, the existence of this bourgeois protec- 
tive detachment was practically annulled, so to speak. 

At the very beginning of our great meetings' activity I 
commenced the organization of a protective detachment at 
a supervision service that in principle consisted of young 
people throughout. Partly they were comrades whom I 
had known since my military service, others were recently 
won young party members who, from the very beginning, 
were instructed and trained to the effect that terror can be 
broken only by terror; that on this earth a man who is 
courageous and determined has always had success on his 
side; that we are fighting for a powerful idea, so great and 
sublime, that it very well deserves to be protected with 
one's last drop of blood. They were saturated with the 
doctrine that once reason is silent and force has the ultimate 
decision, the best weapon of defense is found in the attack; 
and that our troop of supervisors has to be preceded by 
the reputation that it is not a debating club but a fighting 
community, determined for the utmost. 

And how had this youth longed for such a slogan! 

How disappointed and indignant this war generation had 
been, filled with disgust and disdain for the bourgeois 
cowardice ! -* 

Precisely this made it clear that the Revolution was 
possible only because of the catastrophic bourgeois leader- 
ship of our people. The fists for protecting the German 
people would have existed even then, only the heads for 
assuming responsibility were missing. In those days, how 
did the eyes of my boys shine when I made clear to them 
the necessity of their mission, assuring them again and 
again that all wisdom in this world will remain futile ii 
force does not enter its service, defending and protecting it, 



730 MEIN KAMPF 

that the mild Goddess of Peace can march only side by side 
with the God of War, and that every great deed of this 
peace needs the protection and the help of force! How 
much more vividly did the idea of military service dawn 
upon them ! Not in the calcified meaning of old and hard- 
ened officials, in the service of the dead authority of a dead 
State, but in the living knowledge of the individual's duty 
to stand up for and to devote his life to his people in its 
entirety, always and at any time, anywhere and in every 
place. 

And how these boys did stand up! 

Like a swarm of hornets they stormed upon the disturbers 
of our meetings, without considering their superior force, 
no matter how great it was, without considering wounds and 
bloody sacrifices, completely filled with the great idea of 
making a path for the holy mission of our movement. 

As early as in the midsummer of 1920 the organization 
of the supervising detachment gradually assumed definite 
forms, and in the spring of 1921 it was divided into com- 
panies of hundreds, which in turn were divided into groups. 

And this was very necessary, because meanwhile the 
meeting activity had risen continuously. Even now we 
still met frequently in the Miinchner Hofbrauhausfestsaal, 
but more often still in the larger halls of the city. The 
Buergerbraufestsaal and the Mtinchner-Kindl-Keller con- 
stantly saw more enormous mass meetings during the 
winter of 1920-21, and the aspect was always the same: 
even in those days, mass meetings of the N.S.G.W.P. had in 
most cases to be closed by the police because of overcrowding, 
even before they began. 



The organization of our supervising troop cleared a very 
important question. The movement so far had not pos- 
sessed any party emblem and also no party flag. The lack 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 731 

of such symbols had not only disadvantages for the mo- 
ment, but it was unbearable for the future. The disad- 
vantages were above all that the party members lacked 
every outward sign of their belonging together, while for 
the future it was unbearable to lack an emblem that had 
the character of a symbol of the movement and that as 
such could be put up in opposition to the International. 

But what significance must be attributed to such a symbol 
from the psychological viewpoint I had an opportunity 
to observe and to feel more than once even during my 
youth. In Berlin after the War, I experienced a Marxist 
mass demonstration in front of the Royal Palace and in 
the Lustgarten. An ocean of red flags, red scarves and red 
flowers gave this demonstration, it is estimated that one 
hundred and twenty thousand persons took part, a powerful 
appearance at least outwardly. I personally could feel and 
understand how easily a man of the people succumbs to 
the suggestive charm of such a grand and impressive 
spectacle. 

The bourgeoisie that from the viewpoint of party politics 
does not present or represent a view of life at all had, for 
this reason, no flag of its own. It consisted of 'patriots 9 
and therefore it walked about clad in the colors of the 
Reich. Had these very colors been the symbol of a certain 
view of life, one could have understood that the proprietors 
of the State saw in its flag also the representative of their 
view of life, because through their own activity the symbol 
of their view of life had become the flag of the State and the 
Reich, 
f But this was not the case. 

The Reich had been built up without the contribution 
of the German bourgeoisie, and the flag itself had been born 
out of the lap of war. By this, however, it was actually 
only a State flag and had no meaning whatsoever in the 
sense of a special mission and view of life. 



732 MEIN KAMPF 

Only in one place of the German language territory there 
existed something like a bourgeois party flag in German 
Austria. One part of its national bourgeoisie, by having 
chosen the colors of the year of 1848, black, red, and gold, 
as its party flag, created a symbol that, although without 
any significance as a view of life, had a revolutionary 
character in reference to State politics. The greatest enemies 
of this flag black, red, and gold were in those days and this 
must never be forgotten today Social Democrats and Chris- 
tian Socialists, that is the party of the clergy. They in particu- 
lar have cursed, stained and soiled these colors in those 
days, exactly as later ; in 1918, they dragged the colors black, 
white, and red into the gutter. True, the black, red, and 
gold of the parties of the old Austria were the colors of the 
year 1848, that means of a time that was perhaps fantastic 
but that had the most honest German souls as its individual 
representatives, although the Jew stood invisibly in the 
background as the wirepuller. Thus it was treason towards 
the country and the disgraceful selling-out of the German 
people and of German wealth that made these flags so 
congenial to Marxism and the Center Party that today they 
worship them as their highest relic and that they create 
special organizations for the protection of the flag they 
once spat upon. 

Thus up to the year 1920 Marxism was actually not 
opposed by any flag that incorporated the polar contrast 
to its view of life. For, although the more valuable parties 
of the 'German bourgeoisie, after the year 1918, found it 
too much of an effort to take over as their own symbol the 
now suddenly discovered black, red, and gold flag of the 
Reich, they themselves had no program of their own that 
they could have put up against the new development for 
the future; the best they could show was the idea of the 
reconstruction of the Reich that had passed.** 

It is to this idea that the black, white, and red flag of the 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 733 

old Reich owes its resurrection as the flag of our so-called 
national bourgeois parties. 

It is obvious that the symbol of a condition that was over- 
thrown by Marxism under circumstances little glorious is 
ill-suited as an emblem under which this same Marxism in 
turn is to be destroyed. As sacred and beloved these old and 
uniquely beautiful colors, in their fresh youthful combination, 
must be to every decent German who has fought under them 
and who has seen the sacrifice of so many, as little means this 
flag as a symbol for a fight of the future. 
t In contrast with the bourgeois politicians, I have always 
represented the opinion, in our movement, that for the 
German nation it was truly fortunate that it had lost its 
old flag. We do not have to care about what the Republic 
does under its flag. But we should thank Fate from the 
depths of our hearts that it was gracious enough to prevent 
the most glorious flag of all times from being used as a bed 
sheet of the most disgraceful prostitution. The present 
Reich that sells itself and its citizens should never be 
allowed to use the black, white, and red flag of honor and 
heroes. 

As long as the November disgrace lasts it should also 
wear its outward guise and should not try to steal also this 



It was decided at the Constitutional Convention, which met 
in Weimar during 1919, to adopt as a flag the black-red-gold 
banner of the Frankfort Assembly of 1848. It is true, as Hitler 
says, that in Austria this flag had another significance; but in 
Germany it had historical associations with movements favor- 
ing a constitutional monarchy or a republic. The choice was 
based upon a compromise. The Socialists, who constituted the 
majority in Germany, had their traditional red flag. The Con- 
servatives looked upon the black-white-red black of the Ho- 
henzollerns as a symbol of the monarchy and the army. Ac- 
cordingly the moderate groups proposed die black-red-gold flag. 



734 MEIN KAMPF 

from a more honest past. Our bourgeois politicians should 
recall to their memories that he who desires for this State 
the black, white, and red flag, steals from our past. The 
erstwhile flag is actually suitable only for the erstwhile 
Reich, exactly as, the Lord be praised and thanked, the 
Republic chose the flag that is suitable for it. -4- 

This was also the reason why we National Socialists, in 
hoisting the old flag could not have seen an expressive 
symbol of our own activity. For what we want is not to 
reawaken from death the old Reich that had perished 
through its own mistakes, but to build up a new State. 

The movement that fights against Marxism in this sense 
has today consequently to carry incorporated in its flag 
the symbol of the new State. 

f The question of the new flag, that is its aspect, occupied 
us very much in those days. Suggestions were made from 
all sides which, however, were better meant than they were 
successful. For the new flag had to be as much a symbol 
of our own fight as on the other hand it had to have an 
effect as great as that of a poster. He who has occupied 
himself with the masses very much will recognize very 
important matters in these apparent trifles. In hundreds 
of thousands of cases, an effective emblem can give the 
first impetus for the interest in a movement. 

For this reason we had to reject all suggestions for identi- 
fying by a white flag, as was suggested from many sides, 
our movement with the old State or rather with those 
weak parties whose sole interest is the restoration of past 
conditions. Apart from this, white is not a color that 
carries people away. It is suitable for associations of 
chaste virgins, but not for the overpowering movement of 
a revolutionary time. 

Black, too, was suggested: though in itself suitable for 
the present time, it did not give a presentation that in any 
way interpreted the meaning of our movement. Finally! 
this color also is not thrilling enough. 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 735 

White and blue was out of the question, despite the 
wonderful effect from the aesthetic point of view, as the 
color of a German individuaJ State and of /a political 
orientation directed at particularistic narrow-mindedness 
that did not enjoy the best of reputations. Besides, it 
would have been very difficult to find in this a reference 
to our movement. The same applied to black and white. 

Black, white, and gold was in itself out of question. 

Also black, white, and red was out, for reasons already 
mentioned, in any case not in the previous composition. 
In its effect, however, this color composition is high above 
all the others. It is the most resplendent harmony that 
exists. -* 

I personally always stood up for keeping the old colors, 
not only because to me, as a soldier, they are the most 
sacred thing I know, but also, because of their aesthetic 
effect, they correspond to my feeling by far to the greatest 
extent. Yet I had to reject, without exception, the numer- 
ous designs that in those days were handed in by the circles 
of the young movement and that mostly had placed the 
swastika on the old flag. I myself as the leader did 
not want to come forth immediately with my own sketch, 
as it was quite possible that someone else would produce 
one that was just as good or even better. In fact, a dentist 
from Starnberg produced a design that was not bad at all, 
and besides that approached my own design very closely, 
except that it had the one mistake that the swastika was 
composed in a white circle with curved hooks. 

Meanwhile, I myself, after innumerable attempts, had 
put down a final form: a flag with a background of red, 
with a white circle, and in its center, a black swastika. 

And this then was kept. 

In the same sense, arm bands were immediately ordered 
for the supervising detachments, that is a red band which 
also shows a white circle with a black swastika. 



736 MEIN KAMPF 

The party emblem, too, was designed along the same 
lines: a white circle in a red field and in its center the 
swastika. A Munich goldsmith, Fuss, produced the first 
design that could be used and that then was kept. 

In the midsummer of 1920, the new flag appeared in 
public for the first time. It was superbly suited for our 
young movement. It was as young and new as the move- 
ment. No one had ever seen it before; in those days it 
had an effect like that of a flaming torch. We ourselves 
had an almost childlike joy when a faithful woman member 
had carried out the design for the first time and delivered 
the flag. Only a few months later we had in Munich half 
a dozen of these flags, and the continuously increasing 
body of supervisors especially contributed to spreading 
the new symbol of the movement. 

And a symbol it is indeed! Not only that, by the only 
colors, ardently loved by us all, that once had gained so 
much honor for the German people, our adoration for the 

The swastika had been used as a symbol of Germanic religion 
by folkish groups before the War, but without anti-Semitic 
implications. Junius Alter writes (in Nationalisteri): 'Those 
who at that time selected the swastika as the symbol of their 
spiritual communion were not thinking of it as something to 
be set, as a sign of conflict, in opposition to the Jewish 'Star 
of David 1 to which it has latterly been profaned but 
as that in which they beheld the age-old symbol of Aryan 
awareness of God. Consciously or unconsciously they realized 
that the folkish idea in its deeper implications would have to 
reckon most carefully with the religious problem, which is the 
basis of all our spiritual life. Not that anyone thought seriously 
of restoring the cult of Wotan in its primitive form. . . . But 
one did notice the indubitable fact (which many of our best 
have sensed though they have not always publicly expressed 
it) that the blow of the axe with which Charlemagne cut down 
the Irmin pillar at the Erseburg cut deep into the innermost 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 737 

past is demonstrated, it was also the best incorporation of 
the movement's intentions. As National Socialists we see 
our program in our flag. In the red we see the social idea 
of the movement, in the white the national idea, in the 
swastika the mission of the fight for the victory of Aryan 
man, and at the same time also the victory of the idea of 
creative work which in itself is and will always be anti- 
Semitic. 

Two years later, when the detachment of supervisors 
had long become a Storm Troop, embracing many thousand 
men, it appeared necessary to give to this armed organiza- 
tion of the young view of life also a special symbol of 
victory: the insignia. This too, I personally designed, and I 
gave it to the goldsmith master Gahr, an old faithful party 
member, for execution. Since then the insignia belongs to 
the'symbols and field signs of the National Socialist battle. 



core of our people and left behind it a grip in the whole psychic 
development of the Germanic World which has lasted even 
into our own time.' It has also been used as an anti-Semitic 
organization badge in Rumania prior to the War. 

During 1919, the Ehrhardt brigade was formed of soldiers 
who had fought in the Baltic region with the Free Corps. 
These men wore the swastika on their steel helmets, and it 
served them as a sign of identification and a theme for song. 
It is probable that they had found it used in Finland, where 
custom has sanctioned its use (without anti-Semitic implica- 
tions) since time immemorial. The Ehrhardt Brigade was anti- 
Semitic because it believed that the 'Jewish government' of 
the republic had compelled it to discontinue fighting. At any 
rate, it popularized the swastika as an anti-Semitic symbol. 
One finds the swastika used in 'racist* literature (cf. Der 
Hammer, edited by Theodor Fritzch) as early as 1918 and 
1919. 



738 MEIN KAMPF 

The meeting activity that increased more and more 
during 1920 finally led us to hold frequently as many as 
two meetings a week. People crowded in front of our 
posters, the largest halls of the town were always filled, 
and tens of thousands of misguided Marxists found the 
way back to their national community, in order to become 
fighters for a coming, free German Reich. The public of 
Munich had become acquainted with us. They talked of 
us, and the words 'National Socialist' became familiar to 
many and already meant a program. Also the host of 
adherents, even members, began to grow uninterruptedly, 
so that in Munich as early as in the winter of 1920-21 we 
could appear as a strong party. 

In those days there existed, apart from the Marxists, no 
party, especially no national party, that could have shown 
such mass demonstrations as ours. The Miinchner-Kindl- 
Keller, with a capacity of five thousand, was several times 
crammed to the point of bursting, and there was only one 
single room which we had not yet dared to take, and that 
was the Zirkus Krone. 

At the end of January 1921 serious troubles rose again for 
Germany. The Paris Agreement, according to which Ger- 

The London Ultimatum, presented by the Allies on May 5, 
1921, fixed Germany's reparations obligations at 132 billion 
Marks, and demanded that within 25 days I billions Marks be 
paid either in gold or in notes maturing in three months. There- 
upon the Fehrenbach Cabinet resigned, and Dr. Josef Wirth 
formed a Cabinet willing to accept the ultimatum. The 
Democratic Party was maneuvered into line, so as to broaden 
the basis on which the government stood. It was, of course, 
easy to protest against exorbitant Allied demands, but refusal 
to pay meant as everybody realized full well the suicide 
of the nation. Nevertheless acceptance of the ultimatum 
became a favorite argument to prove the 'cowardliness' of 
the regime. 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 739 

many had obligated herself to pay the fantastic sum of one 
hundred billions goldmarks, was to become reality in the 
shape of the London dictate. 

A Workers 1 Community of so-called folkish associations, 
existing for a long time in Munich, wanted to make this 
the cause to call for a greater, common protest. Time 
was pressing, and I myself, in view of this constant hesita- 
tion to bring about the executions of decisions made, was 
nervous. First one talked of a demonstration at the 
Koenigsplatz, but this was dropped as one was afraid of 
being dispersed by the reds, and one planned a demonstra- 
tion of protest in front of the Feldherrnhalle. But this plan 
was dropped also, and finally one suggested a common 
meeting in the Miinchner-Kindl-Keller. Meanwhile day 
after day had passed, the great parties had not taken any 
notice at all of the terrible event, and the Workers' Com- 
munity could not make up its mind at last to determine a 
definite date for the intended demonstration. 

Tuesday, February I, 1921, I urgently demanded a final 
decision. I was put off until Wednesday. Wednesday I 
now demanded an absolutely clear answer if and when the 
meeting would take place. The answer was again vague 
and evasive; I was told, one 'intended* to call upon the 
Workers' Community to make a demonstration on Wednes- 
day of the following week. 

With this my patience was at an end, and I decided to 
carry out the demonstration of protest on my own. Wednes- 
day noon I dictated the poster to a typist in ten minutes 
and at the same time I had the Zirkus Krone rented for the 
next day, Thursday, February 3. 

At that time this was an enormously great risk. Not 
only was it doubtful whether we would be able to fill the 
gigantic hall, we also incurred the risk of being dispersed. 

Our supervising detachment was still by far insufficient 
for the colossal room. Also, I had no correct idea of the 



740 MEIN KAMPF 

possible procedure in case of a ruction. At that time I 
thought that it was far more difficult in the circus building 
than in a normal hall. But as was shown later, exactly the 
reverse was the case. In this enormous room it was actually 
easier to overpower a group of disturbers than was the 
case in tightly crowded halls. 

Certain was only one thing: any failure could throw us 
back for a very long time. For one single successful break- 
ing-up would have destroyed our nimbus at one blow and 
would have encouraged the opponents to try again and again 
in what they had once succeeded. This would have led to 
all our further meeting activity being sabotaged, something 
that could have been made good only after many months 
and after most difficult struggles. 

We had only one day for posting our bills, namely, 
Thursday itself. Unfortunately it rained from the morning 
on, and there seemed cause to fear whether under such cir- 
cumstances many people would not prefer to stay at home, 
instead of going to a meeting in rain and sleet where it was 
possible that assault and murder would take place. 

Thursday morning I was suddenly seized with fear that 
the room would not be filled after all (with this I would 
have been disgraced in the eyes of the Workers' Com- 
munity), so that now I hurriedly dictated some leaflets 
and had them printed, in order to have them distributed 
in the course of the afternoon. They contained, of course, 
the invitation to visit the meeting. 

Two trucks which I had rented were covered in as much 
red as possible, our flags were planted upon them and each 
of them was manned with fifteen or twenty party members; 
they were given instructions to drive through the streets 
of the town as much as possible, to throw out leaflets, in 
short to make propaganda for the mass demonstration of 
the evening. It was the first time that flag-adorned trucks, 
on which no Marxists were found, were driven through 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 741 

the streets of the town. The bourgeoisie, therefore, gaped 
after the trucks that were decorated with red and with 
flying swastika flags, with their mouths open, while in the 
outer districts innumerable fists were raised whose owners 
were visibly enraged at this newest 'provocation of the 
proletariat.' For only Marxism had a right to hold meetings, 
exactly as it alone had the right to drive about in trucks. If 
both these things were done by others, then Marxism in 
turn had the sacred right to consider this a provocation 
of those who so far had been the sole owners of this mo- 
nopoly. 

t At seven in the evening the circus was not yet well filled. 
I was kept informed by telephone every ten minutes, and I 
personally was rather worried; for at seven or a quarter 
after seven the other halls had usually been already half 
filled, sometimes even filled. But this was soon explained. 
I had not counted with the gigantic dimensions of the new 
room : a thousand persons made the Hofbrauhaussaal appear 
very nicely occupied, while in the Zirkus Krone they were 
simply swallowed up. One hardly saw them. Shortly after- 
wards more favorable reports came in and at a quarter to 
eight it was said that the room was filled to three quarters 
and that great crowds were standing in front of the box 
offices. Upon this I drove off. 

Two minutes past eight I arrived in front of the circus. 
There was still a crowd of people to be seen, partly only the 
curious, also many opponents among them, who wanted to 
wait outside for the events to happen. &lt; 

Upon entering the enormous hall I was seized with the 
same joy as a year previously on the occasion of the first 
meeting in the Munich Hofbrauhausfestsaal. But only after 
I had pushed my way through the walls of people and had 
reached the high stage, I saw the success in all its greatness. 
Like a gigantic shell the hall lay before my eyes, filled with 
thousands and thousands of people. Even the arena was 



742 MEIN KAMPF 

black with crowds. More than five thousand six hundred 
tickets had been issued, and if one included the entire num- 
ber of unemployed, of poor students and our supervising 
troops, about six and a half thousand people may have 
been present. 

'Future or Decline' was the subject, and my heart jubi- 
lated in view of the conviction that the future was lying 
down there in front of me. 

I began to speak and spoke for about two and a half 
hours, and my feelings already told me after the first half 
hour that the meeting was going to be a great success. The 
connection with all these thousands of individuals was es- 
tablished. Already after the first hour applause began to 
interrupt me in ever greater spontaneous outbursts, in or- 
der to ebb again after two hours and to give way to that 
solemn silence that later I was to experience in this room so 
many times and that will remain unforgettable to every in- 
dividual. Hardly anything but the breathing of this gigan- 
tic crowd was heard, and only after I had spoken the last 
word did applause roar up till it found its relaxing conclu- 
sion in the ' Deutschland-Lied,' sung most fervently. 

I stayed to see the gigantic room gradually emptying it- 
self and watched a colossal ocean of people pushing through 
the enormous middle door for almost twenty minutes. 
Only then did I myself leave my place, extremely happy, in 
order to go home. 

Pictures were made of this first meeting at the Zirkus 
Krone in Munich. They show better than words the great- 
ness of the manifestation. Bourgeois papers brought re- 
prints and notices, but they only mentioned that it was a 
4 national 9 demonstration, but in their usual modesty they 
did not mention the producers. 

So we had for the first time stepped far beyond the frame 

of an ordinary everyday party. Now one could no longer 

paas us by. In order to prevent the impression that the sue- 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 743 

of this meeting was only an ephemeral one, I immedi- 
ately scheduled for the second time a meeting at the Zirkus 
Krone for the coming week, and the success was the same. 
Again the gigantic room was crowded to the point of burst- 
ing, so that I decided to hold for a third time a meeting in 
the same hall in the coming week. And for the third time 
the gigantic circus was crammed with people from the floor 
to the roof. 

After this beginning of the year 1921 1 increased the meet- 
ing activity in Munich even more. Now I proceeded to hold 
a mass meeting not only every week, but some weeks even 
two mass meetings, indeed, during the height of summer 
and in the late fall there were sometimes three meetings. 
Now we always gathered in the circus and we had the satis- 
faction of seeing that all our evenings brought the same 
success. 

The result was an ever rising number of adherents of the 
movement and a great increase in members. 



Such successes, of course, did not leave our enemies at 
peace. After their always wavering policy had now favored 
terror, now passed us in silence, they were not able to hinder 
the development of the movement, as they themselves were 
compelled to recognize, neither by the one nor by the other. 
Thus as their ultimate effort they decided upon an act of 
terror in order to put a final stop to our further meeting 
activity. 

As the outward reason for this action they used a most 
mysterious attack upon a deputy of the Bavarian Diet 
named Erhard Auer. This Erhard Auer was supposed to 
have been shot at by someone one evening. That means 
he had not actually been shot, but it was said that it had 
been attempted to shoot at him. The unexcelled presence 
of mind as well as the proverbial courage of the Social 



744 MEIN KAMPF 

Democratic party leader had not only frustrated the in- 
sidious attack but had forced the infamous assailants to 
flee. They had fled so hurriedly and so far that even later 
on the police was not able to find the slightest trace of them. 
This mysterious incident now was being used by the organ 
of the Social Democratic Party in Munich and in order to 
arouse public sentiment against the movement in the most 
excessive way and in their customary vociferousness to hint 
at what soon was bound to come. Care was taken that our 
trees were not to tower into the heavens, but that proleta- 
rian fists would now interfere at the right time. 

And a few days later the day of the interference had al- 
ready come. 

A meeting in the Munich Hofbrauhausfestsaal where I 
personally was scheduled to speak had been chosen for the 
final settlement. 

On November 4, 1921, in the afternoon between six and 
seven o'clock, I received the first definite news that the 

During the year 1921, a number of political assassinations 
by adherents of Rightist organizations stirred Bavaria. On 
June 10 of that year, a letter was received by the police in 
which the murder of Erhard Auer, Social Democratic leader, 
was predicted. Auer had led a vigorous campaign against the 
assassins, most of whom were spirited into hiding-places by the 
Bavarian police and government. On October 21, 1921, he 
was returning home from a Party meeting with several com- 
panions when shots were fired. Auer sought cover and returned 
the fire. The police were notified; and though the assassins 
had taken station inside the walled South Cemetery of Munich, 
they were permitted to escape. Socialists placed responsibility 
for this ambush on the S.A. because of the circumstances sur- 
rounding the earlier assassination of Herr Caries, a Landtag 
deputy. The Miesbacher Anzeigcf, a paper friendly to the 
Hitler movement, had suggested editorially that Caries ought 
to be shot 'like a mad dog.' 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 745 

meeting would positively be broken up and that for this 
particular purpose one intended to send great masses of 
laborers from red factories to the meeting. 

It must be attributed to an unfortunate incident that we 
did not receive this information earlier. On the same day 
we had given up our old venerable office in the Sternecker- 
gasse in Munich and had moved to a new one, that means 
we had left the old and could not move into the new office, 
because the workers had not yet finished there. Since the 
telephone, too, had been taken out of the old office and had 
not yet been installed in the new one, quite a number of 
attempts at informing us by telephone of the intended dis- 
ruption were in vain. 

The consequence was that the meeting itself was pro- 
tected only by very weak detachments of supervisors. Of 
a detachment of usually a hundred only about forty-six 
men were present, and the alarm system was not yet so well 
worked out that in the evening, in the course of about one 
hour, a sufficient reinforcement could have been brought 
in. To this was added the fact that such alarming rumors 
had come to our ears innumerable times without anything 
remarkable having happened. The old proverb, that re- 
volutions that have been announced do mostly not occur, 
had so far proved correct also with us. 

This was perhaps also a reason why on that day, not 
everything was done that should have been done in order 
to meet a breaking-up with the most brutal determina- 
tion. 

Finally, we considered the Munich Hofbrauhausfestsaal 
most ill suited for a breakup. We had feared it more for 
the largest halls, especially for the circus. In this respect 
this day gave us a valuable lesson. Later on we studied 
these questions with, I may say, scientific methods and we 
came to results that were partly as unbelievable as they 
were interesting and that proved of fundamental signifi- 



746 MEIN KAMPF 

cance for the organizing and tactical arrangement of our 
storm troops in the time that followed. 

When, at a quarter to eight, I arrived in the lobby of the 
HofbrSuhaus, there could be no longer any doubt of the 
existing intention. The hall was overcrowded and for that 
reason the doors had been closed by the police. The ene- 
mies who had come very early were in the hall and our ad- 
herents for the greater part outside of it. The small Storm 
Troop (S. A.) was expecting me in the lobby. I had the doors 
of the great hall closed and then I ordered the forty-five or 
forty-six men to line up. I made it clear to the boys that 
today for the first time they probably would have to prove 
their loyalty towards the movement to the point of bending 
or breaking and that none of us was to leave the hall, except 
he was carried out dead ; I myself would remain in the hall 
and did not think that even one of them would leave me; 
but if I myself would see one who turned out to be a coward, 
I personally would tear off his arm band and take away his 
party emblem; then I ordered them to proceed immediately 
upon the slightest attempt at a breaking-up and to remem- 
ber that he defends himself best who personally attacks. 

A threefold Heil that this time sounded rougher and 
hoarser than usually was the answer. 

Then I entered the hall and now I could survey the situa- 
tion with my own eyes. They were sitting inside, tightly 
packed, and tried to pierce me even with their eyes. In- 
numerable faces were turned toward me with sullen hatred, 
while again others, with mocking grimaces, sent forth very 
definite shouts. Today one would 'finish us/ we should 
watch our intestines, one would close our mouths for good, 
and what more of such nice sayings there were. They were 
conscious of their superior force and they felt accordingly. 

Yet the meeting could be opened and I began to speak. 
In the Hofbrauhausfestsaal I always stood on one of the long 
sides of the hall and my platform was a beer table. That 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 747 

means I found myself actually among the people. This fact 
added perhaps to always creating an atmosphere precisely 
in this hall as I never found a similar one in any other place. 

In front of me, especially on the left, there sat and stood 
only enemies. They were robust boys and men throughout, 
to a greater part from the Maffei factory, from Kuster- 
mann, from the Isaria Meter Works, etc. Along the left 
wall of the hall they had pushed ahead closely to my table 
and now they began to collect beer mugs, that means they 
continued to order beer and put the empty mugs under the 
table. Whole batteries were thus created, and I would have 
been surprised if today the affair had again taken a good 
ending. 

After about an hour and a half that was the time I was 
able to speak despite all interrupting calls it appeared 
almost as though I would be master of the situation. The 
leaders of the disturbing detachments themselves seemed to 
feel this; for they became more and more restless, they went 
out more and more often, came back again and with visible 
nervousness talked to their people. 

A small psychological mistake which I made in warding 
off an interrupting shout and of which, hardly had I ut- 
tered the word, I became conscious, gave the storm signal. 

A few enraged shouts, and suddenly a man jumped on a 
chair and shouted into the hall: ' FreihcitI' [Freedom.] 
Upon which signal the fighters for freedom began their 
work. 

Within a few seconds the whole room was filled with a 
shouting and shrieking mass, over whose heads, like howit- 
zer shells, innumerable beer mugs were flying; in between 
the breaking of chair legs, the bursting of the mugs, bawl- 
ing, howling and yelling. 

It was a maddening racket. 

I stayed in my place and was able to observe how com- 
pletely my boys fulfilled their duty. 



748 MEIN KAMPF 

I should have liked to see a bourgeois meeting under such 
circumstances! 

The dance had not yet started when my Storm Troopers, 
that was their name from that day on, attacked. Like 
wolves, in groups of eight or ten, again and again they 
pounced upon their opponents and actually began to beat 
them out of the hall. Hardly five minutes had passed that I 
did not see one of them that was not covered with blood. 
How many of them did I get to know properly only then ; 
at their head my good Maurice, my present private secre- 
tary Hess and many others who, although seriously 
wounded themselves, attacked again and again, as long as 
they could stand on their feet. For twenty minutes the in- 
fernal row lasted, but then most of the opponents, who 
counted perhaps seven or eight hundred men, were beaten 
out of the hall by not even fifty of my men and chased down 
the stairs. Only in the left rear corner of the hall a greater 
number stood its ground and offered bitter resistance. 
Then, suddenly, two shots were fired from the entrance to 
the hall, and now a wild shooting started. Yet our hearts 
almost jubilated in view of such a reawakening of old wai 
memories. 

From then on one was no longer able to discern who fired 
the shots; only one thing could be found, that is, that from 
this moment on the rage of my bleeding boys had con- 
siderably increased and that finally the last disturbers, 
overpowered, were driven out of the hall. 

About twenty-five minutes had passed; the hall itself 
looked as though it had been hit by a bomb. The wounds of 
many of my adherents were just being dressed, others had 
to be taken away in carriages, but we had remained the 
masters of the situation. Hermann Esser, who was the 

Emile Maurice was a member of the S.A. to whom Hitler 
dictated portions of Mtin Kampf while in prison. 



THE STRUGGLE WITH THE RED FRONT 749 

chairman of the evening's meeting, declared : 4 The meeting 
continues. The speaker has the floor,' and then I spoke again. 

After we ourselves had already closed the meeting, an 
excited lieutenant of the police suddenly rushed on the 
scene and with wildly gesticulating arms he screeched into 
the auditorium, 'The meeting is dissolved. 1 

I could not help laughing at this late comer to the 
events; the pomposity typical of the police. The smaller 
they are, the greater at least they have to appear. 

We had actually learned a great deal this evening, and 
our opponents also never forgot the lesson they in turn re- 
ceived. 

Up to the fall of 1923 the Munchner Post no longer an- 
nounced any more fists of the proletariat. 

The truth is a little different from the account given here. 
At the close of 1920, Hitler's S.A. formations were strong 
enough to make their influence felt. On January 4 of the next 
year, Hitler declared: 'The National Socialist movement in 
Munich will in the future prevent, without exception, and if 
need be with force, any meetings or addresses which are cal- 
culated to have a demoralizing effect upon our fellow citizens 
who are already decadent enough.' This was the first time since 
the Revolution that a political party had issued such a threat. 
But as a result of having broken up one meeting adjudged to 
be 4 demoralizing, ' Hitler was brought to trial and given three 
months in jail. The police let him off with one month, and he 
emerged crowned with the halo of martyrdom. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE STRONG MAN IS 
MIGHTIEST ALONE 



IN WHAT I have said previously I mentioned the ex- 
istence of a Workers 1 Community of German folkish 
associations, and here I want to deal briefly with the 
problem of these working communities. 

By a workers' community one generally understands 
a group of associations which, in order to facilitate their 
common work, enter into a certain mutual relationship, 
choose a common leader of more or less great competence 
and carry out common actions in common. Merely by this 
it is shown that they are associations, unions or parties 
whose aims and ways are not too far apart. It is claimed 
that this is always the case. For the normal average citizen 
it is as enjoyable as it is comforting to hear that such unions 
finally, by finding themselves together in a workers 9 com- 
munity, have discovered what they have in common and what 
unites them and that they ignore that which separates them. 
Hereby the mutual conviction is prevalent that such a 
unification means an enormous increase in strength and 
that by this the otherwise weak little groups have suddenly 
become a factor of power. 

But this is mostly wrong! 

It is interesting and, in my eyes, important for the better 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 751 

understanding of this question to get a clear idea of the 
way in which the formation of unions, associations or such- 
like can be arrived at, all of which assert that they pursue 
the same aim. In and by itself, it would be logical that one 
aim is fought for only by one association and that it would 
be sensible if several associations were not fighting for the 
same goal. There is no doubt that this aim was envisaged 
first only by one association. One man announces the truth 
in some place, he calls for the solution of a certain question, 
he establishes a goal and forms a movement that is to serve 
the realization of his intention. 

Thus an association or a party is formed which, according 
to its program, is intended to bring about either the aboli- 
tion of existing evils or the establishment of a specific 
condition in the future. 

Once such a movement has been called to life it practically 
holds a certain right of priority. Now it should be a matter 
of course that all people who intend to fight for the same 
goal, join such a movement and thus increase its strength, 
in order to be better able to serve the common intention in 
this way. Especially every intellectually active head ought 
to see in just such a joining the supposition for the actual 
success of their common struggle. Thus, by virtue of reason 
and with a certain honesty (a lot depends on this, as I will 
prove later), there ought to be only one movement for one 
goal. 

That this is not the case can be ascribed to two causes. 
One of them I almost want to call a tragic one, while the 
second is to be sought in human weakness. But funda- 
mentally I see in both of them only facts that are suitable 
for increasing the will in itself, its energy and intensity, and, 
by higher breeding of human energy, to make the solution 
of the problem in question finally possible. 

The tragic cause why, for the solution of a certain task, 
we do not stop at one single association, is the following: in 



752 MEIN KAMPF 

this world every deed of great style will generally be the 
fulfillment of a wish that for a long time has existed in 
millions of men, of a longing that has quietly been harbored 
by many. Indeed, it may happen that centuries yearningly 
long for the solution of a certain question, because they 
groan in consequence of the unbearableness of an existing 
condition, without the fulfillment of this general longing 
arriving. Nations who no longer find a heroic solution at all 
for such a distress can be called impotent, while we see the 
vital energy of a people and the determination for life that 
it guarantees proved most strikingly whenever, for its libera- 
tion from a great oppression, or for the abolition of bitter 
distress, or for the appeasement of its soul that has become 
restless because it became uncertain Destiny gives it 
some day the man who is blessed to this end, who will 
finally bring the long yearned-for fulfillment. 

The very characteristic of so-called great questions of 
the time implies that thousands work for their solution, 
that many think they are called upon, that even Destiny 
herself suggests many of them to be chosen, so that in the 
free play of energies she gives the final victory to the man 
who is stronger and more able, and entrusts him with the 
solution of the problem. 

f Thus it may be that centuries, dissatisfied with the shap- 
ing of their religious life, long for a renovation, and that 
out of this psychic urge dozens and more men arise who, 
based on their insight and knowledge, believe themselves 
called upon ior the solution of this religious distress, in order 
to appear as prophets of a new doctrine or at least as fighters 
against an existing one. 

It is certain that also here, by virtue of a natural order, 
the strongest man is chosen for fulfilling the great mission ; 
but the realization that this one man is the one who is 
exclusively called upon usually dawns upon the others very 
late. On the contrary, they all look upon themselves as 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 753 

having equal rights and as being called upon for the solution 
of this task, and their contemporaries usually are least 
able to distinguish who of them because solely capable 
of the highest achievements solely deserves their support. 

Thus in the course of centuries, frequently even within 
one and the same period, various men appear, they found 
movements in order to fight for objectives which at least 
so they assert are the same or are felt by the great masses 
to be the same. The people itself harbors vague wishes and 
has general convictions, without, however, being able to 
see perfectly clearly about the very nature of the objective 
or of its own wish, or even about the possibilities of realizing 
them. &lt; 

The tragedy lies in the fact that those men aim at the 
same goal by quite different ways, without knowing one 
another, and that therefore, in the purest faith in their own 
mission, they consider themselves obliged to go their own 
way without considering the others. 

f That such movements, parties, and religious groups 
originate completely independent of one another, solely out 
of the general intention of the period, that is what appears 
as tragic at least at first sight because people are too 
much inclined towards the opinion that the energies, 
scattered over various ways, would, if concentrated upon 
one single way, lead to success more quickly and more 
surely. But this is not the case. Nature herself, in her 
inexorable logic, makes the decision by having the various 
groups compete with one another and by having them fight 
for the palm of victory, and by leading that movement to 
the goal that has chosen the clearest, shortest and surest 
way. 

But how should the correctness or incorrectness of a way 
be decided upon externally, if the free play of energies had 
not been given a free way, if the ultimate decision had not 
been taken from the doctrinary decision of human know- 



754 MEIN KAMPF 

alls and had not been handed over to the infallible proof of 
visible success which will finally give the ultimate affirma- 
tion of the correctness of an action ! 

Therefore, if different groups march towards the same 
goal on separate ways, they will, as soon as they have be- 
come aware of the existence of similar endeavors, control 
the character of their way more thoroughly, will shorten 
this way if possible, and with the exertion of their utmost 
energy, they will try to reach the goal more quickly. 

Thus this competition results in a higher breeding of the 
individual fighter, and humankind owes its successes not 
infrequently also to those lessons that were drawn from the 
failure of frustrated former attempts. 

Thus in the split-up, caused without deliberate fault of 
the individuals and at first appearing a tragic fact 
we can recognize the means by which the best procedure was 
finally arrived at.^ 

In history we see that in the opinion of most people 
the two ways which once it was possible to take for the 
solution of the German question and which were chiefly 
presented and fought for by Austria and Prussia, Habsburg 
and Hohenzollern, should have been put together from the 
very beginning; in their opinion one should have entrusted 
one's combined forces to the one or the other way. But in 
that case one would then have set out on the way of the 
recently more important representative; the Austrian 
intention, however, would never have led towards a 
German Reich. 

And now the Reich of strongest German unity originated 
precisely from what millions of Germans, with bleeding hearts, 
had experienced as the ultimate and most terrible sign of our 
fratricidal war: the German imperial crown was in truth won 
on the battlefield of Koeniggraete and not in the battles before 
Paris, as one afterwards thought. 

Thus also the founding of the German Reich was by 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 755 

itself not the result of some common intention along com* 
mon ways, but rather the result of a conscious sometimes 
also unconscious wrestling for hegemony, out of which 
struggle Prussian finally emerged victorious. And one who, 
not blinded by party politics, does not renounce the truth, 
will have to admit that the so-called wisdom of men would 
never have made the same wise decision, such as the wis- 
dom of life, that means the free play of energies, made it 
at last become reality. For who, in German lands, would 
seriously have believed, two hundred years ago, that the 
Prussia of the Hohenzollerns, and not Habsburg, would 
some day become the germ cell, founder and teacher of the 
new Reich? Who, today, would still want to deny that 
Fate has acted more wisely in this manner; indeed, who 
could today imagine a German Reich at all, supported by 
the principles of a foul and degenerate dynasty? 

No, the natural development, although after a struggle 
of centuries, has after all put the best man in thai place in 
which he belonged. 

This will always be and remain so forever, as it has 
always been. 

Therefore, it must not be regretted if different people 
set out on the way in order to arrive at the same goal : the 
strongest and quickest is recognized in this manner and 
will be victorious. 

There is still a second cause why in the life of the nations 
frequently movements of seemingly equal kind try to 
reach the seemingly same goal still by different ways. This 
cause is not only tragic, but actually rather pitiful. It 
lies in the deplorable mixture of envy, jealousy, ambition, 
and thievish mentality which unfortunately one finds some- 
times combined in single individuals of humankind* 

For, as soon as there appears a man who deeply recog- 
nizes the distress of his people and who now, after he has 
made absolutely clear to himself the nature of the disease, 



756 MEIN KAMPF 

seriously tries to remedy it, after he has focused a goal 
and chosen a way that may lead to this goal then im- 
mediately small and smallest minds become attentive and 
eagerly follow up the activity of this man who has drawn 
upon himself the eyes of the public. Exactly like sparrows 
who, apparently quite disinterested, but in reality most 
attentive, continuously watch a more fortunate comrade 
who has found a morsel of bread, so that suddenly, in an 
unguarded moment, they rob [him], thus do also these 
people. A man only needs to step out on a new way, and 
immediately many lazy loiterers will be startled and smell 
a promising bite which could perhaps lie at the end of this 
way. Once they have found out where perchance it may 
be found, they eagerly set out in order to arrive at the 
goal by a different, possibly shorter way. 

If now the new movement is founded and has been given 
its definite program, then these people come and pretend 
that they are fighting for the same goal; but by far not 
by honestly placing themselves into the ranks of such a 
movement and by thus recognizing its priority, but they 
steal from the program and upon it they found a new 
party of their own. Thereby they are impudent enough to 
assure their thoughtless fellow citizens that for a long 
time previously they have intended exactly the same 
things as the other one and not infrequently they succeed 
in placing themselves in a favorable light, instead of being 
justly subjected to general disdain. For is it not a great 
impudence to pretend that one inscribes on one's own ban- 
ner the task that someone else wrote on his banner, to 
borrow the other's lines of direction of his program, and 
then to go the ways of one's own, as though it was he 
himself who has brought about all this? But this im- 
pudence is shown most of all by the fact that the same ele- 
ments who first, by their new foundations, have caused 
the split-up talk most of all, as experience shows, of the 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 757 

necessity of unity and uniformity, as soon as they think 
they notice that the opponent is so far ahead that they 
cannot overtake him. 

To such a procedure we owe the so-called 'folkish 
split-up/ 

True, in the year 1918-19 the formation of quite a series 
of groups, parties, etc., that were called folkish had issued 
from the natural development of affairs without the 
founders' fault. Out of all of these parties, as early as in 
1920, the N.S.G.W.P. had slowly become crystallized as 
the victorious party. The fundamental honesty of each 
individual founder could not be proved better than by the 
truly admirable decision of many of them to sacrifice their 
own, obviously less successful movement, to the stronger 
movement; that means to dissolve or to integrate it uncon- 
ditionally. 

This applies especially to the protagonist of the German 
Socialist Party in Nurnberg, Herr Julius Streicher. The 
N.S.G.W.P. and the G.S.P. (German Socialist Party) had 
originated with the same final goals, but quite independent 
of one another. The main fighter for the G.S.P. was, as 



Julius Streicher's ' D.S.P.' was the Deutschsozialistische Partci 
(German Socialist Party), which had a certain success in 
Franconia. We have seen that Streicher, for a long time dubious 
of the merits of Hitler's leadership, eventually acquiesced. 
Hitler has never broken with anyone who submitted completely 
to him, but few others have received the ostentatious support 
given to Streicher. Unquestionably one of the worst louts in 
the Party, Streicher is nevertheless a person of considerable 
power. His whip is famous; his obscenities are world-renowned. 
He has sported a Hitlerian mustache, and his oratorical style 
somewhat resembles the Fiihrer's. He was once a teacher, and 
rose to the rank of lieutenant during the War. Cf . Tk* Nazi 
Dictatorship, by Frederick L. Schumann. 



758 MEIN KAMPF 

already mentioned, the erstwhile school-teacher Julius 
Streicher in Nurnberg. At first he, too, was solemnly con- 
vinced of the mission and the future of his movement. 
But once he was able to recognize clearly and undoubtingly 
the greater force and the stronger growth of the N.S.G.W.P., 
he discontinued his activity for the G.S.P. and the Workers' 
Community and asked his adherents to join the N.S.G.W.P. 
that had emerged victoriously from the mutual wrestling 
and to continue fighting in its ranks for the common goal. 
A decision that was personally as hard as it was thoroughly 
decent. 

t Accordingly, there remained no split-up whatsoever from 
this first time of the movement, but the honest intentions 
of the men of those days nearly throughout led to an 
honest, straight and correct end. What today we call by 
the words 'folkish split-up* owes its existence, as already 
pointed out, exclusively to the second cause I mentioned : 
ambitious men who previously never had ideas of their 
own, far less goals of their own, felt themselves 'called 
upon 9 precisely at the moment when they saw the success 
of the N.S.G.W.P. undeniably ripen. 

Suddenly programs originated which were completely 
copied from our programs, ideas were fought for that were 
borrowed from us, goals were established for which we 
had been fighting for years, ways were chosen which had 
long been pursued by the N.S.G.W.P. One tried to ex- 
plain by all means why one had been compelled to found 
these new parties, despite the long existing N.S.G.W.P.; 
however, the more noble the pretended motives were, the 
less true were these phrases. 

In truth one sole reason had been decisive: the founders 9 
personal ambition to play a role for which their own dwarfish 
bearing was not equipped except for a great audacity to take 
over others' thoughts, an audacity which otherwise, in civil 
life, is usually called thievish. 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 759 

In those days there existed no conceptions and ideas of 
other people that such a political kleptomaniac would not 
have collected for his new business within the shortest time. 
Those who did so were the same people who later, with 
tears in their eyes, deeply deplored the 4 folkish split-up* 
and who uninterruptedly talked of the 'necessity of unity/ 
with the silent hope that after all they would be able to 
cheat the others to the effect that, tired of the eternally 
accusing clamor, they would throw to the thieves, in addi- 
tion to the stolen ideas, also the movements that had been 
created for their execution. 

But if they did not succeed in doing so and if the profit- 
ableness of the new enterprises, thanks to the scanty 
mental capacity of their owners, did not turn out as they 
had expected, then they usually reduced their prices and 
were happy even if they could wind up in one of the so- 
called Workers' Communities. 

Everything that in those days was too weak to stand on 
its own legs came together in such workers' communities; 
probably starting from the belief that eight lame people, 
arm in arm, will certainly make a gladiator. 

But if among the lame ones there ever was a healthy one, 
then he needed his whole energy in order to keep the 
others on their legs and by this he himself was finally 
paralyzed. 

We have always to look upon the marching in common 
with so-called workers' communities as a question of 

Is a political or social revolution to be achieved only if it 
is carried out by an organization determined to stand alone, 
and to have neither allies nor friends? The history of contem- 
porary Germany affords no direct answer to the question. 
Hitler broke with those among his subordinates who felt that 
the Party could succeed only by forming a coalition with other 
parties and thus accepting parliamentary government. But 



760 MEIN KAMPF 

tactics; but we never must relinquish the following funda- 
mental realization: 

By the formation of a workers 9 community weak associations 
are never turned into strong ones, but a strong association 
can and will not seldom be weakened by it. The opinion, that 
by the integration of weak groups there ought to result a 
factor of strength is wrong, as experience shows that in every 
form and under all suppositions the majority will be the 
representative of stupidity and cowardice, and that thus any 
plurality of associations, as soon as it is ruled by a leader- 



he himself did form a union with the German National Party, 
without which he would still not have had a majority in March, 
1933. Favorite examples of what are supposed to have been 
'Unilateral revolutions 1 are Christianity and 'liberalism.' But, 
at least in the natural order, the success of Christianity was in 
part due to the presence of Jewish and Oriental religions in 
the Roman Empire. Paul spoke to the Athenians of their 
'unknown God, 1 and Augustine discoursed on the 'hidden 
Revelation.' During the mediaeval period, the Church accepted 
the Empire as its confederate. 'Liberalism 1 was certainly the 
achievement of many different forces and minorities. It cannot 
be tfaced to the French Revolution or to the Free Masons. 
But of course a militaristic society, once established, must have 
a single leader of unchecked authority. 

Hitler has, if anything, been sterner with his enemies than 
with his friends. If trouble were taken to count lines in Mein 
Kampf, it would doubtless be found out that more space is 
devoted to scolding would-be rivals than to trouncing Marxism 
or democracy. Only Jews draw more fire than do the nation- 
alistic recalcitrants. Similarly, Hitler has left behind him a 
vast array of broken friendships, weary helpers, and disillu- 
sioned allies. Few have ever dared deflect him from his own 
favorite objectives and survived. Only one man continued to 
spurn him openly the great, the mad, the ceaselessly in- 
dividualistic Ludendorff. Others have seen the light too late. 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 761 

ship of several heads of its own choice, is surrendered to 
cowardice and weakness. Also, by such a combination the free 
play of energies is tied up, the struggle for choosing the best 
is stopped, and accordingly the necessary and final victory 
of the healthier and stronger man is prevented forever. There- 
fore, such fusions are enemies of the natural evolution, 
for in most cases they far more hinder than promote the 
solution of the problem which is fought for. 

It may happen that out of purely tactical considerations 



Spengler said before he died that for the world's sake the 
Pope should excommunicate Hitler a strange appeal from 
a man who professed to believe humanity a beast of prey. 

The most perfect demonstrations of Hitler's absolutism are, 
of course, the ' blood purge ' of 1934 and the treatment accorded 
the deposed Austrian Chancellor, Dr. Kurt von Schuschnigg. 
Some aspects of the ' purge ' are easily enough explained. One 
can say that General Von Schleicher had threatened to get rid 
of the regime, and that the Nazis honestly believed him 
implicated in a plot. One can add that the army officer whose 
diaries were stupidly published in Paris might, by stretching 
the idea of martial law to the utmost, be found guilty of high 
treason; that the death of Von Kahr was a kind of retributory 
justice for the men who fell during the putsch of 1923; and that 
Arnold Probst, the Catholic Youth leader, was a victim to a 
belated act of vengeance. These and dozens of other killings 
may have been done to even scores and settle grudges. There 
is a kind of tribal vengeance which times like that in which we 
live are somehow tempted to take. 

But other deaths baffle the observer. What shall we make 
of a 'leader' who in an hour of fury orders shot down, without 
a trial or even a hearing, the man upon whom he leaned just a 
year previous as an indispensable support? Without Ernst 
Roehm Hitler would never have come to power; without him 
he would in all probability have been ousted during November, 
1933. On January I, 1934, Hitler wrote Roehm calling him his 



762 MEIN KAMPF 

the highest leadership of a movement, which sees into the 
future, unites nevertheless while treating certain ques- 
tions with similar associations for a very short period, 
and perhaps also proceeds in common. But this must 
never lead to a perpetuation of such a state, if the move- 
ment itself does not want to renounce its redeeming mis- 
sion. For, once it has entangled itself finally in such an 
alliance, it loses the possibility and also the right to give 
its force free rein in the sense of a natural evolution, and 
thus to beat its rivals and to reach victoriously the estab- 
lished goal.** 
One must never forget that everything that is actually great 

'dear friend' and professing inability ever to thank him for 
his services. Yet six months later, he flew into a rage and 
ordered this man shot because, having to choose once more 
between the Army and the Party, he felt that the death of 
Roehm was the easiest way out. More than that. He tried to 
justify his action in a speech which told the world little of the 
truth except that Roehm was homosexual. With Roehm there 
fell dozens of S.A. leaders and men no one knows how many 
died, and in all probability no one will ever know. 

Dr. Schuschnigg was not a great man, but he was honest and 
idealistic. With almost touching sincerity he offered the Third 
Reich the friendship of Austria, and was at first incredulous 
when shown evidence that under cover of that friendship a 
revolutionary uprising was being prepared. He capitulated at 
Berchtesgaden, after a harrowing interview. He could have 
ordered a stand made later on he was really pledged to do 
so on his own legitimistic principles, and at all events he had a 
chance to win. But he capitulated by reason of his unwilling- 
ness a quixotic but noble unwillingness to shed blood. 
Nevertheless the victorious Hitler ordered him jailed and tried 
for 'insubordination.' Diplomatic intervention may have 
saved him from summary justice, but that is all it could do. 
The state of mind revealed in such attitudes is difficult to 
fathom. The world in which Hitlers rule is no place for lambs. 



THE STRONG MAN IS MIGHTIEST ALONE 763 

in this world has not been fought for and won by coalitions, 
but that it was always the success of one individual victor. 
Coalition successes, by the very manner of their origin, harbor 
the germ for the later crumbling off; changing revolutions of 
the spirit are only conceivable and can be carried out only in 
the form of titanic battles of individual formations, but never 
as the enterprises of coalitions. 

Thus, above all, also the folkish Slate will never be created 
by the compromise-like intentions of a national workers' 
community, but only by the steel-hard will power of one sole 
movement which has struggled its way through against all 
others. 



CHAPTER IX 

FUNDAMENTAL THOUGHTS 

ON THE MEANING AND 

THE ORGANIZATION OF 

THE STORM TROOP 



* fHE strength of the old State rested on three pillars. 
I the monarchist form of government, the administra- 
tive body, and the army. The Revolution of the year 
1918 abolished the constitution, deteriorated the army, 
and delivered the administrative body to corruption by 
political parties. With this, however, the most essential 
buttresses of a so-called State authority were smashed. 
State authority by itself is nearly always based upon the 
three elements which are the principal foundations of al) 
authority. 

The first foundation for forming authority is always of 
fered by popularity. However, an authority that is based 
solely on this foundation is still extremely weak, unstable, 
and vacillating. Any supporter of such an authority, rest- 
ing purely on popularity, must therefore endeavor to im- 
. prove and to safeguard this authority by creating power. 
In power, therefore, that means in force, we see the second foun- 
dation of all authority. This is far more stable, more secure. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 765 

but not always more vigorous than the first one. If popu- 
larity and force unite, and if thus combined they are able to 
last over a certain period of time, then an authority on an even 
more solid basis can arise, the authority of tradition. If 
finally popularity, force, and tradition combine, an authority 
may be looked upon as unshakable. 

This latter case has been completely eliminated by the 
Revolution. In fact, not even an authority of tradition 
existed any longer. With the collapse of the old Reich, with 
the elimination of the old State form, with the destruction 
of the former sovereign emblems and symbols of the Reich, 
tradition has abruptly been cut off. The consequence of this 
was the most serious disturbance of State authority. 

Even the second pillar of State authority, force, ceased 
to exist. In order to be able to carry through the Revolu- 
tion at all one was forced to disintegrate the embodiment 
of the organized force and power of the State, that is, the 
army; in fact, one actually had to use the deteriorated 
parts of the army as revolutionary fighting elements. Al- 
though the armies of the front had not uniformly fallen vic- 
tim to this dissolution, they were nevertheless eaten into 
by the acid of disorganization at home, the farther the&gt; 
left behind the glorious fields of their four and a half years' 
heroic struggle, and after having arrived at the garrisons 
of demobilization, they equally ended in the muddle of the 
so-called voluntary obedience of the epoch of the Soldiers' 
Councils. 



The passage is a characteristic 'folkish' statement of how 
the ' Germanic State ' is supposed to proceed from choice of the 
leader to unquestioning submission to that leader. He is 
elected by reason of his popularity, but he is maintained against 
rivals by the power at his disposition. Finally he is so well 
established that the governed no longer reflect on what life 
was like before his election. 



766 MEIN KAMPF 

Upon these mutineering gangs of soldiers who considered 
the military service in the light of an eight-hour day, one 
could indeed no longer base any authority. Thereby the 
second element, that which actually guarantees the stability 
of authority, was also abolished, and the Revolution had 
nothing left but the most original element, popularity, upon 
which to build its authority. This very foundation, how- 
ever, was extremely unstable. True, the Revolution, at one 
single powerful blow, succeeded in smashing the old State 
edifice, but in the last analysis only because the normal 
equilibrium within our nation's structure had already been 
abolished by the War. 

Every national body can be divided into three great 
classes: into an extreme of the best mankind on the one 
hand, good in the sense that they possess all virtues, es- 
pecially distinguished by courage and an eagerness to 
sacrifice themselves, but on the other hand, an extreme of 
the worst scum of the people, bad in the sense that they 
present all egotistic impulses and vices. Between the two 
extremes lies a third class, the large broad middle stratum 
which embodies neither brilliant heroism nor the basest 
criminal mentality. 

Periods of the rise of a national body distinguish themselves, 
nay, they exist merely through the leadership of the extreme best 
part. 

Periods of a normal, even development or of a stable condi- 
tion are marked and exist by the visible domination of the 
element of the middle, whereby the two extremes balance or 
rather cancel one another. 

Periods of collapse of a national body are marked by the 
predominant activity of the worst elements. 

But with this it is remarkable that the broad masses as 

In retrospect a somewhat curious remark, often quoted 
against Hitler. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 767 

the class of the middle as I will call it makes its ap 
pearance felt only whenever the two extremes themselves 
unite in mutual struggle, but that in case of a victory of one 
of the extremes it always willingly subordinates itself to the 
conqueror. In case the best elements dominate, the broad 
masses will follow them ; in case the worst elements rise, it 
will at least not put up any resistance against them; never 
will the masses of the middle engage in a fight, 
t The War, in its four and a half years' blood-shedding, 
has destroyed the inner balance of these three classes in so 
far as allowing for all sacrifices of the middle one must 
observe that it has almost completely bled white the ex- 
treme of the best human material. For what during these 
four and a half years has been shed of priceless German 
heroes' blood is truly exorbitant. One should sum up all the 
hundreds of thousands of individual cases when it was said 
again and again: volunteers to the front, voluntary patrols, 
voluntary dispatch runners, volunteers for telephone detach- 
ments, volunteers for bridge passages, volunteers for U-boats, 
volunteers for airplanes, volunteers for storm battalions, etc. 
again and again during four and a half years, volunteers 
and again volunteers in a thousand occasions and one 
sees always the same result: the beardless youngster, or the 
mature man, both filled with flaming patriotism, with great 
personal courage or highest sense of duty, they came forth. 
Thousands, even hundred thousands of such cases hap- 
pened, and gradually this human material thinned out more 
and more. Those who were not killed were either maimed 
or they gradually crumbled off in consequence of the small 
number that had remained. But one should consider above 
all that the year 1914 put up entire armies of so-called 
volunteers who, thanks to the criminal lack of conscience of 
our parliamentary good-for-nothings, had not been given an 
efficient peace-time training, and who thus now, as defense- 
less cannon fodder, were exposed to the enemy. The four 



768 MEIN KAMPF 

hundred thousand who in those days were killed in the 
Flanders battles or who were crippled could never again be 
replaced. Their loss was more than the wiping-out of a 
mere number. By their death the good side of the scale, 
because not heavy enough, shot up, and more heavily than 
before weighed the elements of baseness, depravity, and of 
cowardice, in short the masses of the worst extreme. 

For another thing had to be considered : 

Not only that on the battlefields the extreme of the best 
had been cleared in the most dreadful manner throughout 
four and a half years, the extreme of the worst had mean- 
while preserved itself in the most wonderful manner. It is 
certain that each hero who came forward voluntarily, and 
after having died the sacred death of sacrifice climbed the 
steps to Valhalla, was outweighed by a duty shirker who 
very carefully turned his back on death, in order that, in- 
stead, he might be able to exercise a more or less useful 
activity at hornet 

Then the end of the War offers the following picture: 
the broad middle layer of the nation has paid its duty of 
loyal blood sacrifices; the extreme of the best, in an unparal- 
leled heroism, has almost completely sacrificed itself; the 
extreme of the worst, supported on the one hand by the most 
senseless laws and by non-application of the Articles of 
War on the other, has, unfortunately, been preserved just 
as completely. 

This well-preserved scum of our national body made the 
Revolution, and it was able to do so only because it was no 

The Revolution of 1918 was a compound of various moods. 
An exhausted people, shocked by the suddenness of defeat 
and psychologically unnerved by hunger and gloom; a group 
of pacifistic 'leaders,' incensed at the ruthless militarism which 
had driven Germany into economic and political misery; a 
small number of professional rebels, each of whom had a 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 769 

longer opposed by the extreme of the best elements: it had 
ceased to exist. 

t With this, however, the German Revolution from the be- 
ginning was only a comparatively popular affair. It was 
not the German people as such that committed this act of 
Cain, but the rabble of its deserters, pimps, etc., that 
shunned the light. 

The man of the front welcomed the end of the bloody 
struggling, he was happy to be able to return home, to see 
wife and children again. But he, in his inner consciousness, 
had nothing to do with the Revolution proper; he did not 
like it and far less did he like its originators and organizers. 
During the four and a half years of the most serious fighting 
he had forgotten the party hyenas and all their quarrels had 
become alien to him. 

Only with a small section of the German people had the 
Revolution been really popular: that is, with that class of 
its helpers who had chosen the knapsack as the distinguish- 
ing mark of all honorable citizens of this new State. They 
loved the Revolution not for its own sake, as so many er- 
roneously believe still today, but because of its conse- 
quences. &lt; 

But it was truly difficult to buttress authority perma- 
nently upon the popularity of these Marxist freebooters. 
And yet, just the young Republic needed authority at any 
price, if it did not want to be suddenly devoured, after a 
short period of chaos, by a power of revenge that emerged 

recipe of upheaval that would not work; and an army com- 
mand which capitulated to the 'revolution 1 without firing a 
shot, because capitulation was very much to its advantage: 
these were some of the factors. Two divisions could have 
crushed all the disorder there was in Germany, and no evidence 
has ever been furnished that those two divisions were not to be 
found. 



770 MEIN KAMPF 

from the remaining elements of the good part of our people, 
t These supporters of the Revolution in those days then 
feared nothing more than to lose the ground in the mael- 
strom of their own chaos, and thus would suddenly have 
been seized and placed on a different ground by an iron 
fist, such as grows out of the life of the nations more than 
once during such periods of history. The Republic had to 
be consolidated at any price. 

Almost immediately it was forced to procure itself, along 
with the unstable pillar of its weak popularity, an organiza- 
tion of power in order to found upon it a more solid author- 

ity. 

When in the days of December, January, and February, 
1918-19 these matadors of the Revolution felt that the 
ground under their feet was shaking, they looked out for 
people who would be ready to strengthen, by force of arms, 
the weak position that the love of their people offered them. 
The ' anti-militaristic ' Republic needed soldiers. But since 
the first and sole support of their State authority that is, 
their popularity was rooted only in a society of pimps, 
thieves, burglars, deserters, duty shirkers, etc., that means 
in that part of the people which we have to call the extreme 
of the worst, in these circles all courting of people who were 
ready to sacrifice their own lives in the service of the new 
ideal was Love's labor lost.&lt;- The layer which supported 
the revolutionary idea and thus executed the Revolution was 
neither able nor ready to furnish the soldiers for its protection. 
For this layer by no means wanted the organization of a re- 
publican State body, but the disorganization of the existing 
one for the better gratification of their instincts. Their watch- 
word was not: order and construction of the German Republic, 
but rather: plundering of it. 

Thus the cry for help which in those days the people's 
deputies sent forth in their agony was found to die unheard, 
and on the contrary, even to release defense and bitterness 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 771 

in this layer. For in such an undertaking one felt a breach 
of loyalty and faith, because in the formation of an author- 
ity that was no longer based solely on popularity but was 
supported by power, one sensed the beginning of the battle 
against that which for these elements was the sole criterion 
of the Revolution: against the right to commit theft and 
the undisciplined rule of a gang of thieves and looters, 
broken out of jail and released of their shackles, in short, of 
an evil rabble. 

The people's deputies could call as much as they liked, 
nobody came from their ranks, and only the call 'traitor' 
announced to them the opinion held by these bearers of 
their popularity. 

For the first time in those days countless young Germans 
were found ready, in the service of 'quiet and order' as they 
thought, to button up once more their soldiers' coats, to 
shoulder carbines and rifles, and with their steel helmets 
to stand up against the destroyers of their country. -45 
voluntary soldiers they united in free battalions, and while 

General Maercker worked out a plan for reorganizing units 
of troops for the defense of law and order. He was aided in 
this endeavor by the General Staff, which finally saw that 
Friedrich Ebert and his associates were hopelessly mired in 
revolutionary Berlin unless the ordinary laws could be enforced. 
Under the auspices of Gustav Noske, sufficient fighting 
strength was then brought to the capital to end all disturbances. 
Unfortunately the officers in command themselves lacked 
discipline. Instead of waiting until the crowd had quieted 
down and the presence of authority had made itself felt, they 
soothed their shattered nerves by murdering prisoners, taking 
a fearful toll of life, and ruining what little chance there 
remained that the Republic would endear itself to the prole- 
tariat. Noske himself is hardly to be blamed. Bolshevism was 
in the air then, the government was being harassed day and 
night, and tumult was just around the corner. He was com- 



772 MEIN KAMPF 

ardently hating the Revolution, they began to protect and there- 
by practically to establish this same Revolution. 

In the best of faith they acted thus. 

The real organizer of the Revolution and its actual wire- 
puller, the international Jew, correctly evaluated the situa- 
tion of those days. The German people was not yet so ripe 
that it could have been dragged into the bolshevist swamp 
of blood, as it happened in Russia. This was due to a large 
degree to the racially still greater unity between the Ger- 
man intelligentsia and the German manual laborer. This 
was further due to the extensive permeation with elements 
of education of even the broadest layers of the people as is 
similarly the case only in the other West European States, 
but was completely lacking in Russia. There the very in- 
telligentsia itself was for the greater part of non-Russian 
nationality or at least of non-Slavic racial character. The 
thin stratum of intellectuals in the Russia of that time could 
be taken off at any time, in consequence of the complete 
lack of connecting middle parts, linking it with great masses 
of the people. But there the intellectual, and also the moral, 
standard of the latter was terribly low. 

Once one succeeded, in Russia, in inciting the uneducated 
host of the great masses, unable to read and to write, 
against the thin intellectual stratum which had no relation 
and no connection whatsoever with it, the destiny of this 



pelled to accept such troops as were to be had. It is most 
regrettable that General Greener or General Maercker did not 
go to Berlin with a handful of picked officers and a picked 
command. Instead the leadership devolved on General 
Ltittwitz an old firebrand to whom the workers were just 
canaille and the mere mention of the name Liebknecht an 
excuse for exhausting the resources of the vocabulary. Maercker 
later handled his troops far more ably, though his sympathies 
were also with the monarchy and the old Prussia. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 773 

country was decided upon, the revolution succeeded; the 
Russian illiterate thus was made the defenseless slave of his 
Jewish dictators, who in their turn were, however, clever 
enough to have this dictatorship supported by the phrase 
'people's dictatorship/ 

t Regarding Germany the following additional fact must 
be considered : as certainly as the Revolution could succeed 
only in consequence of the gradual decomposition of the 
army, as certainly was the actual supporter of the Revolu- 
tion and the destroyer of the army not the front soldier, 
but the more or less light-shunning rabble that either loi- 
tered about in the home garrisons or that served somewhere, 
as 'indispensable/ in the economic service. This army was 
further strengthened by tens of thousands of deserters who 
were able to turn their backs on the front without particular 
risk. At all times the genuine coward fears nothing more 
than death. But he had had death before his eyes on the 
front, day after day, in thousandfold manifestations. If, 
nevertheless, one wants to make weak, hesitating, or even 
cowardly fellows do their duty, then there is always only one 
possibility: the deserter must know that his desertion entails the 
very thing he tries to escape. At the front one may die, as a 
deserter one must die. Only by such a draconic threat 
against every attempt at fleeing the colors can a deterrent 
effect be achieved, not only for the individual, but also for all. 

And in this the meaning and the purpose of the Articles 
of War were rooted. 

It was sublime to believe that the great struggle for the 

The assertion that Russian Sovietism is a 'Jewish plot' is 
often made, but there is little evidence to support it. The 
first Soviet of the People's Commissars was selected in 1917. 
Of the fifteen members, not more than three can have been of 
Jewish origin. Only one Trotski was demonstrably a 
Jew. 



774 MEIN KAMPF 

existence of a nation could be fought out merely on the basis 
of voluntary loyalty, born of and preserved by the recogni- 
tion of what is necessary. Voluntary fulfillment of duty has 
always determined the actions of the best; but not those of 
the average. This is the reason why such laws are necessary ; 
as, for example, those against theft which were not created 
for those essentially honest, but for the vacillating and 
weak elements. Such laws, by deterring the worse elements, 
are to prevent the development of a condition where finally 
the honest man would be considered the more stupid one, 
and thus more and more people would arrive at the opinion 
that it would be more expedient to take part in theft as 
such rather than to stand by with empty hands or even to 
let themselves be robbed. 

Therefore, it was wrong to believe that in a fight that in 
all human probability might rage for years, one could spare 
the aids which the experience of centuries, even of millen- 
niums, made appear as those that in serious times and in 
moments of most serious demands on the nervous system 
are capable of forcing unstable and weak people to fulfill 
their duty. 

For the voluntary war hero, of course, no Articles of War 
were necessary, but for the cowardly egoist who in the hour 
of his people's distress evaluates his life higher than that of 
the community. Such a spineless weakling, however, can 
be deterred from giving in to his cowardice only by applica- 
tion of the hardest penalty. If men continuously wrestle 
with death, and if for weeks they have to endure in mud- 
filled shell craters, without rest, sometimes with the worst 
kind of food, then the unreliable man, becoming uncertain, 
cannot be held by threatening him with prison or even penal 
servitude, but only by the ruthless application of the death 
penalty. For experience proves that in such times he looks 
upon prison as a place that is still a thousand times more 
agreeable than the battlefield, since in prison his priceless 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 775 

life at least is not endangered. But that during the War one 
practically abolished the death penalty, that is that actually 
one put the Articles of War out of force, has taken its most 
terrible revenge. An army of deserters, especially in the 
year 1918, flooded the military base and the home country 
and helped towards forming that great and criminal or- 
ganization which, as the maker of the Revolution, we then 
saw suddenly before us after November 7, 1918. 

The front proper had virtually nothing to do with this. 
Only the longing for peace was, of course, felt by all of them. 
But this very fact implied an extraordinary danger for the 
Revolution. For when after the armistice the German 
armies began to approach home, the anxious question of 
the revolutionaries of those days was always the same: 
What will the front soldiers do? Will the field gray tolerate 
this?! *+ 

In those weeks the Revolution in Germany had to appear 
as modified, at least outwardly, if it did not want to run the 
risk of being smashed, with lightning-like rapidity, by some 
German divisions. For if in those days only one single divi- 
sion commander had come to the decision to pull down, with 
the help of the division loyally devoted to him, the red rags and 
to have the ' Councils ' stood up against the wall, and to break 
eventual resistance with mine-throwers and hand grenades, 
then this division would have swelled up to an army of sixty 
divisions in less than four weeks. Of this the Jewish wire- 
pullers were terrified more than of anything else. And just 
in order to prevent this, one had to restrain the Revolution 
to a certain degree; it was not allowed to degenerate into 
bolshevism, but, such as the situation was, it had to simu- 
late 4 quiet and order.' Hence the numerous great allow- 
ances, the appeal to the body of old officials, to the old army 
leaders. One needed them at least for a certain time, and 
only after the Moors had done their duty could one dare to 
give them the kick they deserved and to take the Republic 



776 MEIN KAMPF 

from the hand of the old State servants and to deliver it to 
the claws of the revolutionary vultures. 

Only in this manner could one hope to dupe old generals 
and old State officials, in order to disarm, from the very be- 
ginning, their possible resistance by an apparent harmless- 
ness and clemency of the new condition. 

Praxis has shown how far this succeeded. 

However, the Revolution had not been made by ele- 
ments of quiet and order, but by those of riot, theft, and 
robbery. And neither the development of the Revolution 
corresponded to the latter's intentions, nor could one, for 
tactical reasons, explain and make palatable to them its 
course. 

Social Democracy, through its gradual increase, had lost 
more and more the character of a brutal revolutionary 
party. Not that in its thoughts it had ever worshiped a 
goal other than that of the Revolution, or that its leaders 
had other intentions; certainly not. But what finally re- 
mained was only the intention and a body that was no 
longer suitable for its execution. With a party of ten millions 
one can no longer make a revolution. With such a movement 
one is no longer faced by an active extreme, but by the great 
masses of the middle, that is, inertia. 

Out of this realization the famous cleavage of Social 
Democracy brought about by the Jew took place still dur- 
ing the War, i.e.: while the Social Democratic. Party, ac- 
cording to the inertia of its masses, clung to national de- 
fense like a dead weight, one extracted from it the radically 
effective elements and formed them into specially forceful 
new columns of attack. Independent Party and Spartacist 
Group were the storm battalions of revolutionary Marxism. 
They had to create the completed fact upon the basis of 
which thereafter the masses of the Social Democratic 
Party, having been prepared for decades, were able to step. 
The cowardly bourgeoisie, thereby, was correctly evaluated 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 777 

by Marxism and was simply treated 'en canaille.' One took 
no notice of it at all, knowing that the doglike submissive- 
ness of the political formations of an old, outlived genera- 
tion would never be capable of any serious resistance. 

As soon as the Revolution had succeeded and the chief 
pillars of the old State could be looked upon as broken, and, 
on the other hand, the returning army of the front began to 
appear as an uncanny sphinx, the natural development of 
the Revolution had to be slowed down; the bulk of the So- 
cial Democratic army occupied the conquered position, and 
the Independents and Spartacist storm battalions were 
pushed aside. 

But this could not be done without fight. 

Not only that these effective attack formations of the 
Revolution now felt themselves to be betrayed because 
they were not satisfied and not only that they wanted to 
continue to battle of their own accord, their unruly rowdy- 
ism was only too welcome to the wirepullers of the Revolu- 
tion. For hardly was the overthrow over than there ap- 
parently existed two camps, namely: the party of quiet and 
order, and the group of bloody terror. But what was more 
natural now but that immediately our bourgeoisie marched 
with flying colors into the camp of quiet and order? Now 
suddenly these most wretched political organizations were 
given the chance of an activity whereby, without being 
compelled to say so, they had nevertheless quietly found a 
ground under their feet and had arrived at a certain solidar- 
ity with the power they hated, but which they feared even 
more profoundly. The German political bourgeoisie had 

Hitler holds that the Marxist movement was nothing but a 
cunning Jewish contrivance to undermine Germany and thus 
complete the triumph of Jewish international finance. But 
realizing that no victory can be won immediately with force, 
it cunningly devised a 'trick 9 by which the bourgeois groups 



778 MEIN KAMPF 

been given the high honor of being permitted to sit down at 
the same table with the thrice-cursed Marxist leaders, for 
fighting the bolshevists. 

Thus, as early as in December, 1918, and January, 1919, 
the following condition crystallized : 

A revolution has been made by a minority of the worst 
elements, backed immediately by the entire Marxist parties. 
The revolution itself is of an apparently moderate character, 
a fact that draws upon it the hostility of the fanatical ex- 
tremists. The latter begin to shoot at large with machine 
guns and hand grenades, to occupy State buildings, in 
short, to jeopardize the moderate revolution. In order to 
banish the horror of such a further development, an armis- 
tice is declared between the supporters of the new condition 
and the adherents of the old one, so that now they can 
mutually wage a fight against the extremists. The result 
is that thereby the enemies of the Republic have ceased 
their fight against the Republic as such and help towards 
forcing down those who themselves, although from quite 

were duped into making a pact with its 'moderate 1 elements 
against the 'extremist* elements. Therewith the bourgeois 
groups are, of course, sold out to Jewry. 

The historical circumstances are these : When the result* of 
the general election of delegates to the Constituent Assembly 
of 1919 had been tabulated, it appeared that there was no 
Socialist majority. Accordingly some sort of coalition was 
necessary. Therefore the parties which had formed the 
government of Prince Max of Baden i.e., the Social Demo- 
crats, the Centrists, and the Democrats formed a coalition. 
The Democrats refused to sponsor acceptance of the Treaty 
of Versailles, so that thereupon for a time the government 
consisted of Centrists and Social Democrats only. Thereafter, 
until 1932, the Social Democrats were sometimes in the govern- 
ment and sometimes out of it. But they remained a powerful 
force because of the numerical strength of their party. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 779 

different viewpoints, are equally enemies of this Republic. 
The further result, however, is that hereby the danger of 
a fight of the adherents of the old State against those of the 
new one appears averted for good. 

f One cannot keep this fact before one's eye too often and 
too clearly. Only he who understands this fact understands 
how it was possible that a people, nine-tenths of whom have 
not made a revolution, seven-tenths of whom reject it, 
six- tenths of whom hate it, had this revolution imposed 
upon them by one-tenth. 

Gradually the Spartacist barricade fighters were bleeding 
out on one side, and the nationalist fanatics and idealists 
on the other, and in the same measure in which these two 
extremes wore one another out mutually, the masses of the 
middle as always were victorious. Bourgeoisie and Marxism 
found one another on the basis of given facts, and the 
Republic began to 'consolidate' itself. Which, however, 
did not prevent the bourgeois parties at first from cit- 
ing for some time longer especially before elections 
the monarchist idea, in order to be able to conjure up, 
along with the great spirits of the past, the smaller spirits 
of their adherents and to be able to ensnare them once 
more. 

This was not honest. In their minds they had long broken 
with the monarchy, and the uncleanliness of the new con- 
dition began to make its seductive influences felt also in the 
bourgeois party camp. The common bourgeois politician 
today feels more at ease in the republican mud of corruption 

A gibe at the expense of the German People's Party 
(Deutsche Volkspartei) and its leader, Gustav Stresemann. 
Throughout the Weimar Assembly period, this party remained 
quite staunchly conservative. Later Stresemann himself, and 
with him a good many other leaders, veered to republicanism 
and a foreign policy based on international conciliation. 



780 MEIN KAMPF 

than in the clean hardness which he still remembers from the 
former State. 



As already mentioned, the Revolution, after smashing 
the old army, was forced to create a new factor of power 
for the strengthening of its State authority. The situation 
being what it was, it could win this only from adherents of 
a view of life that was actually opposed to it. From them 
alone a new army body could gradually rise which, exter- 
nally limited by the peace treaties, in the course of time had 
to be shaped in its mentality into an instrument of the new 
State conception. -&lt; 

If one puts to oneself the question how, apart from all 
the real faults of the old State, which were its causes, the 
Revolution was able to succeed in actual reality, one arrives 
at the following conclusion : 

(1) In consequence of the deadening of our concepts of ful- 
fillment of duty and obedience, and 

(2) in consequence of the cowardly passivity of our so-called 
State-preserving parties. 

To this the following should be said : 

The deadening of our concepts of fulfillment of duty and 
obedience has its ultimate cause in our utterly non-national 
education, motivated always purely from the viewpoint of 
the State. The result of this, too, is the misconstruction of 
means and end. Consciousness of duty, fulfillment of duty, 
and obedience are not ends in themselves, just as little as 
the State is an end in itself, but they all are meant to be the 
means to make possible and to safeguard the existence in 
this world of a community of living beings, mentally and 
physically of the same order. In an hour when a body na- 
tional visibly collapses and to att appearances is abandoned to 
the most serious oppression thanks to the activity of a few 
scoundrels obedience and fulfillment of duty towards these 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 781 

people mean doctrinary formalism, nay, pure lunacy, whereas 
by refusal of obedience and of 'fulfillment of duly ' it would be 
made possible to save a people from its doom. According to 
our bourgeois State conception of today, the division com- 
mander, who in those days was ordered from above not to 
shoot, acted according to his duty and correctly by not 
shooting, since to the bourgeois world thoughtless formal 
obedience is more valuable than the life of its own people. 
According to National Socialist conception, however, in 
such moments not the obedience towards weak superiors 
takes effect, but obedience towards the national commun- 
ity. In such an hour the duty of personal responsibility 
towards a whole nation becomes apparent. 

The fact that a living conception of these ideas was lost 
in our people, or rather in our governments, to make way 
for a purely doctrinary and formal conception, was the 
cause of the Revolution's success. 

With reference to the second point, the following may be 
said: 

The deeper reason for the cowardice of the 'State-pre- 
serving* parties is above all the departure from their ranks 
of the effective, well-meaning portions of our people which 
bled to death on the battlefields. Apart from this our bour- 
geois parties, which we can call the only political formations 
which stood on the ground of the old State, were convinced 
that they were allowed to present their opinions exclusively 
by intellectual means and with intellectual weapons, as the 
application of physical means was the exclusive privilege 

This same argument in a slightly different form once led to 
a curious fiasco. Addressing the students of Berlin University 
in 1930, Hitler declared: 'The War meant that the best men 
were continuously being rooted out, while those of doubtful 
value were being conserved. 9 A broad grin appeared on 
hundreds of academic faces. 



782 MEIN KAMPh 

of the State. Not only has one to see in such a concep- 
tion the symptom of a decadent weakness that gradually 
shapes itself, it was also senseless in a time when a political 
opponent had long left this position and instead emphasized 
in all frankness that, if possible, he intended to fight for 
his political aims with force. At the moment in which in the 
world of the bourgeois democracy, as the consequence of the 
latter, Marxism appeared on the scene, its appeal to lead 
the struggle with ' intellectual weapons ' was a folly that was 
bound to take a terrible revenge eventually. For Marxism 
itself has always represented the opinion that the weapon 
has to be used only according to viewpoint of expediency 
and that the justification to do so is always derived from its 
success. 

f How correct this conception is was proved in the days 
from November 7 to November n, 1918. In those days 
Marxism did not care in the least for parliamentarianism 
and democracy, but it rendered both of them the death- 
blow by shouting and shooting gangs of criminals. It is a 
matter of course that the organizations of bourgeois bab- 
blers were defenseless at the same moment. * 

After the Revolution, when the bourgeois parties al- 
though by changing their signboards suddenly appeared 
and their leaders came creeping out of hideouts in dark cel- 
lars and airy attics, then, like all representatives of such 
formations, they had not forgotten their mistakes and had 
not learned anything additional. Their political program 
lay in the past, in so far as they had not already reconciled 
themselves in their minds with the new State, but their aim 
was to be permitted to take part, if possible, in the new 
State affairs, and their sole weapons thereby remained, as 
before, their words. 

Even after the Revolution, the bourgeois parties capitu- 
lated every time to the streets in the most wretched manner. 

When the Law for the Protection of the Republic came 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 783 

up for consideration there was, at the first, no majority in 
favor of it. But in face of the two hundred thousand 
demonstrating Marxists these bourgeois 'statesmen* were 
seized with such fear that they accepted the law in spite of 
their conviction, in the edifying fear that otherwise, upon 
leaving the Reichstag, they would be beaten to a pulp by 
the furious masses. Which then, unfortunately, in conse- 
quence of the passing of the law did not take place. 

Thus the development of the new State took its course, 
as though no national opposition had ever existed. 

The sole organizations which at that time would have 
had the courage and the energy to step up to Marxism and 
its incited masses were first the Free Corps, later the organi- 
zations for self-defense, the citizens' guards, etc., and finally 
the traditional leagues. 

But the reason why their existence too did not bring 
about any change, however noticeable, in German history, 
was the following: 

Precisely as the so-called national parties were not able to 
exercise any influence, since they lacked any threatening 
power in the streets so on the other hand the so-called 
defensive leagues were not able to exercise any influence, 
because they lacked any sort of political idea and above all, 
any really political goal. 

What once gave Marxism its success was the perfect play- 
ing-together of political will and effective brutality. What 
barred national Germany from all practical shaping of the 
German development was the lack of a close co-operation of 
brutal power and ingenious political intention. 

Whatever the intentions of the 'national' parties might 
be, they had not the slightest power to fight for these 
intentions, least of all in the streets. 

The defense leagues had all the power, they were masters 
of the streets and of the State, and they had no political 
idea and no political goal for which their power, for the 



784 MEIN KAMPF 

benefit of the national Germany, would have been, or even 
could have been, staked. In both cases it was the cunning 
of the Jew who by clever coaxing and intensification 
was able to bring about a genuine perpetuation, but in any 
case a growing deepening, of this unfortunate tragedy. 

It was the Jew who, through his press, knew, with infinite 
skill, how to launch the idea of the 'unpolitical character* 
of the defense leagues, as on the other hand in political life, 
just as cunningly, he always praised and demanded the 
'pure spirituality' of the fight. Millions of German block- 
heads parroted this nonsense, without having the faintest 
notion that thereby they practically disarmed themselves 
and delivered themselves, defenseless, to the Jew. 

But for this, too, there again exists a natural explana- 
tion. The lack of a great, new, creative idea means at att 
times a limitation of the fighting power. The conviction of the 
justification of using even most brutal weapons is always 
dependent on the presence of a fanatical belief in the necessity 
of the victory of a revolutionary new order on this globe. 

A movement which does not fight for such highest aims and 
ideals will therefore never take the ultimate weapon. 

The demonstration of a new great idea was the secret 
of the French Revolution's success; to the idea the Russian 
Revolution owes its victory, and only by the idea did 
Fascism get the strength for subjecting a people in the 
most beneficial manner to a most comprehensive reshaping. 

Bourgeois parties are not capable of doing so. 

But not only bourgeois parties, but also the defense 
leagues, saw their political goal in the restoration of the 
past, in so far as they occupied themselves at all with 
political aims. In these leagues tendencies of old war 
veteran associations and of the 'Kyffhauser' came to life 
and helped towards blunting the edge of the sharpest 
weapon which the national Germany of those davs pos- 
sessed, and towards letting it decay in the mercenary 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 785 

service of the Republic. The fact that hereby they them- 
selves acted in the best of intentions, but above all in best 
faith, does not change in the least the unfortunate folly 
of the events of that time. 

Through the Reichswehr, which consolidated itself, 
Marxism was gradually given the required powerful sup- 
port of its authority, and thereupon it began to liquidate 
methodically and logically the national defense leagues, 
appearing dangerous, as now being superfluous. Individual 
and especially courageous leaders whom one faced with 
mistrust were haled before the courts and were put behind 

The Wehrverbdnde (Defense Leagues) were akin to the 
Vigilantes and similar groups in American history. Recruited 
from war veterans, they were usually financed by some indus- 
trialist to whom the officer in charge had access. Among the 
more important groups were these: the Ehrhardt Brigade, 
which was the principal power behind the Kapp putsch of 
1920; the Einwohnerwehren, organized in Bavaria by Escherisch, 
who refused to take part in any political activity; and the 
Korps Oberland, which took an important part in the German 
resistance to Polish uprisings in Upper Silesia. Gradually the 
cream of these organizations were absorbed into the Reichs- 
wehr, the National Socialist S.A., or the Stdhlhdm. The last 
was a conservative veterans' organization led by Franz 
Seldte, which combined (in later stages of its development) 
ideas of monarchical restoration with principles of military 
training. It sponsored the idea of 'labor batallions 1 to be 
recruited from the unemployed. No affection was wasted 
between the Stahlhelm and the S.A. The Stahlhdm suffered 
by reason of the fact that its leader and principal source of 
support, Seldte, went over to Hitler. Its ablest official, Colonel 
Duesterberg, had turned out to be non-Aryan. Hitlerites 
constantly taunted the Stahlhelm on its inability to gain 
enthusiastic mass support. It retorted by calling him a 
'demagogue.' The Kyffhiuser Bund was an older veterans' 
association, reorganized in 1921. 



786 MEIN KAMPF 

iron bars. But with all of them the lot that they had brought 
upon themselves was brought to pass. 



With the foundation of the N.S.G.W.P. for the first 
time a movement made its appearance whose goal lay not, 
similar to that of the bourgeois parties, in a mechanical 
restoration of the past, but in the endeavor to establish an 
organic folkish State in lieu of the absurd State mechanism 
of today. 

Thereby, from the first day on, the young movement upheld 
the view that its idea can be represented spiritually, but that 
the protection of this representation has to be secured, if neces- 
sary, by means of physical power. Faithful to its conviction 
of the enormous importance of the new doctrine, it appears 
a matter of course that for achieving this aim no sacrifice 
must be too great. 

I have already pointed out the momenta which oblige 
a movement in so far as it wants to win the heart of a 

The facts are these: After 1923, the Social Democrats had 
comparatively little influence in the Reich government. This 
suppressed the earlier, active Wehrverb&amp;nde for three reasons: 
first, because of the Hitler putsch, some leaders in which had 
sought to stage another attempt in the Ruhr district after 
the breakdown of 'passive resistance'; second, because the 
Allied High Commission threatened to take drastic action if 
the disarmament clauses of the Treaty of Versailles were not 
enforced; third, because the Reichswehr command regarded 
such groups as useless and even harmful. Moreover, most of 
them were never actually disbanded. The 'Black Reichswehr 1 
i.e., the military formations whose existence no one in the 
government would admit, but which in 1931 numbered at 
least 60,000 had its own arms depots and training regula- 
tions, and was financed by the diversion to it of funds voted 
for some other purpose. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 787 

nation to draw from its own ranks the defense against 
the opponents' terroristic attempts. Furthermore, it is a 
perpetual experience of world history that a terror which is 
derived from a view of life can never be broken by a formal 
State power, but is apt to succumb only to a new view of 
life that proceeds with equal boldness and determination. 
This will at all times be annoying to the feelings of the 
official State guardians, but this does not abolish the fact. 
State power can guarantee quiet and order only if the State, 
according to its essentials, is identical with the currently 
prevalent view of life, so that brutal elements have merely 
the character of individual, criminal natures, and are not 
looked upon as the representatives of an idea that is the 
extreme opposite to the viewpoints of the State. In such a 
case the State may for centuries apply the strongest means 
of power against a terror by which it is threatened, but in 
the end it will be powerless, it will succumb. 

The German State is attacked most seriously by Marxism. 
During its seventy years* struggle it was unable to prevent 
the victory of this view of life, but despite sentences of 
hundreds of thousands of years of penal service and prison 
and despite most bloody means which in innumerable cases 
it inflicted upon the fighters for the Marxist view of life 
that endangered it, it was nevertheless forced to capitulate 
almost completely. (This, too, the normal bourgeois State 
leader will try to deny, of course without being able to be 
convincing.) 

The State, however, which on November 9, 1918, went 
down unconditionally on its knees before Marxism, will not 
suddenly rise tomorrow as its conqueror, but on the con- 
trary: today bourgeois empty-heads in ministers' chairs 
babble of the necessity not to rule against the workers, 
whereby with the notion 'worker' they have Marxism in 
mind. But by identifying the German worker with Marx- 
ism, they commit a falsification of truth that is not only 



788 MEIN KAMPF 

as cowardly as it is mendacious, but by their motivation 
they try to hide their own collapse before the Marxist idea 
and organization. 

In view of this fact, namely, the complete subjection of 
the present State by Marxism, there arises all the more the 
duty for the National Socialist movement not only to 
prepare the victory of its idea spiritually, but to take in 
its own hands its defense against the terror of the Inter- 
national intoxicated with victory. 

I have already described how out of practical life slowly 
grew the guard for the protection of our meetings, how this 
gradually assumed the character of a definite order-mainte- 
nance troop to maintain order and strove towards assum- 
ing shape as an organizing body. 

However much the gradually rising formation might 

That the International was * drunk with victory ' could hardly 
be maintained seriously after 1924. By this time it was evi- 
dent that not only had socialization been postponed indefinitely 
in Germany, but also that the premises on which international 
labor co-operation could be established no longer existed. 
Prior to the War European labor, engaged in manufacturing, 
had thought of itself as more or less a class-bound unit which 
could extend a hand to the labor which, in colonial countries, 
was concerned primarily with the production of raw materials 
on farms or in the mines. The War, however, not only brought 
'industrialization* to the 'colonies/ but dotted Europe with 
customs barriers unimaginable previously. In addition, 
Marxist leaders were quite aware of the fact that certain 
philosophic conceptions on which their economic system was 
based were no longer tenable. Few could any longer believe 
in Marx's view of the course of industrial evolution, and con- 
fidence in materialistic determination had grown weaker. 
Accordingly the ' International ' was confronted with a Russian 
rival which, having for its background a far more primitive 
society, discarded belief in the most basic of all Marxist assump- 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 789 

outwardly resemble a so-called defense league, as little was 
it comparable with it. 

As already mentioned, the German defense leagues had 
no definite political idea of their own. In fact they were 
merely self-defense leagues of more or less expedient train- 
ing and organization, so that they actually represented an 
illegal supplement to the State's momentary legal means 
of power. Their character of a Free Corps was justified 
merely by the nature of their training and by the condition 
of the State in those days, but by no means can they claim 
such a title as perhaps that of free formations of the fight 
for a free conviction of their own. The latter they did not 
possess despite the anti-republican attitude of individual 
leaders and entire associations. For it is not enough that one 
is convinced of the inferiority of an existing condition in order 
to be allowed to speak of a conviction in a higher meaning, but 
the patter is rooted only in the knowledge of a new condition 
and is seeing with one's inner eye a condition which to attain 
one feels a necessity -, and for the realization of which to stake 
oneself, one considers the highest task of life. 

The fact that it was not in the least and did not want to 
be a servant of the conditions created by the Revolution, 
but that it struggled exclusively for a new Germany, is 
what, fundamentally, distinguishes the order-maintenance 
troop of the National Socialist movement of that time from 
all other defense leagues. 



tions human rights, and therewith also repudiated the ideas 
of democratic government and democratic management of 
industry which had been sacred theses in Germany. The 
Social Democrats had, therefore, to fall back upon a trade 
union policy and to seek to obtain by revisionistic procedure 
a steady improvement of the worker's status. This they pretty 
well managed to do; but they now lacked revolutionary momen- 
tum and therewith any desire to indulge in 'Terror.' 



790 MEIN KAMPF 

This order-maintenance troop, however, had at the begin- 
ning only the character of a detachment for the protection 
of meetings. Its first task was limited: it consisted of 
making possible the holding of meetings which without it 
would have been flatly prevented by the opponents. As 
early as in those days it had been educated towards blindly 
carrying out attacks, but not perhaps because as was 
said in stupid German folkish circles it worshiped the 
rubber truncheon as the highest spirit, but because it under- 
stood that the greatest spirit can be eliminated if its bearer 
is slain by the rubber truncheon, as actually in history 
the most important minds not infrequently ended under the 
blows of smallest helots. It did not want to establish vio- 
lence as its aim, but it wanted to protect the messengers of 
the spiritual aim against oppression by violence. And 
thereby it has understood that it is not obliged to take 
over the protection of a State that offers no protection of 
the nation against those who threaten to destroy nation 
and State. 

After the rally battle in the Munich Hofbrauhaus the 
order-maintenance troop was once and forever given the 
name Storm Detachment in permanent memory of the heroic 
storm attacks of the small number of those days. As even 
the name implies, it thus represents only a detachment 
of the movement. It is a section in it, precisely as propa- 
ganda, the press, the scientific institutes, and other things 
represent merely sections of the party. 

How necessary its construction was we could see not only 
at this memorable meeting, but also when we attempted to 
expand the movement gradually from Munich over the rest 
of Germany. As soon as we had appeared dangerous to 
Marxism, the latter did not let any opportunity escape of 
nipping in the bud any attempt at a National Socialist 
meeting, or, respectively, of preventing, by disruption, its 
being held. Thereby it waa quite natural that the Marxist 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 791 

party organizations of all shades blindly shielded any such 
intention and any such incident in the representative bodies. 
But what was one to say to bourgeois parties which in many 
places, although themselves beaten down by Marxism, 
could not dare to let their speakers appear in public and 
which nevertheless with a quite unintelligible, stupid satis- 
faction followed up our battles against Marxism whenever 
they took a course unfavorable to us? They were happy 
that he who could not be conquered by them, but rather 
conquered them, could not be broken also by us. What was 
one to say to State officials, presidents of the police, even 
ministers, who with really indecent lack of loyalty liked to 
present themselves outwardly as * national* men, but who, 
with all the differences which we National Socialists had 
with Marxism, offered the latter the most disgraceful 
handyman's services? What was one to say to men who 
in their self-abasement went so far as to persecute, for the 
wretched praise of Jewish papers, those men to whose heroic 
staking of their lives they in part owed it that a few years 
previously their maimed corpses had not been hung up on 
lampposts by the red mob? 

These were such sorry manifestations that at one time 
they caused the memorable late President Poehner, who in 
his hard straightforwardness hated all cringers as only a 
man with an honest heart is able to hate, to utter the harsh 
statement: ' During all my life I did not want to be anything 
but a German first, and then an official, and I never wish 
to be confused with those creatures who as prostitute- 
officials offer themselves to anyone who is able to play 
the master for the moment.' 

It was especially pitiful that this kind of people not only 
gradually overpowered tens of thousands of the most honest 
and decent German State officials, but also slowly infected 
them with their own lack of loyalty, persecuted the most 
honest of them with their bitter hatred, and finally drove 



792 MEIN KAMPF 

them out of their offices and positions, while they them- 
selves, in hypocritical mendacity, still presented themselves 
as 'national' men. 

From such people we could never hope for any support, 
and we also received it but in the rarest cases. Solely the 
construction of our own protection could safeguard the ac- 
tivity of the movement and win for it at the same time 
the public attention and general respect which are given 
to him who, if attacked, puts up a resistance of his own. 

As the leading idea for the inner construction of this 
storm detachment, the intention was always predominant to 
train it along with all physical training to an unshak- 
ably convinced representative of the National Socialist idea 
and finally to secure its discipline in the highest degree. It 
was to have nothing to do with a defense organization of 
bourgeois conceptions, and equally nothing with a secret 
organization. 

The reason why as early as in those days I most sharply 
refused to have the S.A. [Storm Detachment] of the 
N.S.G.W.P. staged like a so-called defense league is the 
following consideration : 

From the purely objective viewpoint a nation's education 
for defense cannot be carried out by private associations, 
except with the help of the most enormous subsidiaries by 
the State. Any other belief is based on a great exaggeration 
of one's own abilities. It is impossible, once and for all, 
that with so-called 'voluntary discipline 1 one could con- 
struct beyond a certain size organizations which are of mili- 
tary value. Here the most important support of the com- 
manding power, namely, the punitive authority, is lacking. 
In the fall, or rather still in the spring, of 1919 it was possible 
to establish so-called ' Free Corps,' but not only did they con- 
sist, in the greater part, of old front fighters who had gone 
through the school of the old army, but the manner of the 
obligation which they imposed on the individual absolutely 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 793 

subjected them to military obedience at least for a limited 
time. 

A voluntary 'defense organization' of today lacks this 
completely. The greater the association becomes, the 
weaker becomes discipline, the smaller must be the de- 
mands on the individual member, and the more will the 
whole assume the character of the old unpolitical associa- 
tions of soldiers and veterans. 

f A voluntary education for army service without secured 
absolute power of command will never be carried out in 
great measures. Always only a few will be ready to subject 
themselves voluntarily to a compulsion of obedience such 
as was self-understood and natural with the army. 

Beyond this a real training cannot be carried out, in con- 
sequence of the ridiculously small means which for such 
purposes a so-called defense league has at its disposal. But 
the best, the most reliable training ought to be precisely 

These twenty years have now passed, and the greatest 
problem confronting the new German army is the training of 
officers to lead the immense force it has recruited. Most of 
the available old officers are kept on the reserve lists, but it is 
realized that their usefulness in actual campaigning may be 
limited. In so far as the groups which lived through the war 
as children are concerned, the great difficulty is that the 
physical privations and the psychological unsettlement 
through which they passed may have impaired their usefulness. 
In addition the Nazis have selected for their own cadres, partic- 
ularly the S.S., thousands of the best physical specimens; and 
the function of these groups in a coming war is to be, as S.S. 
Commander Himmler has declared, the maintenance of order 
at home, the surveillance of munitions plants, and the pre- 
vention of strikes or sabotage. What is to be done with the 
S.A. is not quite clear, some holding that it will occupy what- 
ever regions are conquered. The Nazi army problem is there- 
fore very real, even if one discounts all matters of 'morale.' 



794 MEIN KAMPF 

the main task of such an institution. Eight years have now 
passed since the War, and since that time not one class of 
our youth (Jahrgang) has been trained methodically. But 
it cannot be the task of a defense league to comprise the 
already trained classes of long ago, as in that case one could 
at once tell this league, mathematically, at what time the 
last member will leave this body. Even the youngest sol- 
dier of 1918, after twenty years, will be unable to fight, 
and we approach this date with considerable speed. Thus 
any so-called defense league will of necessity assume more 
and more the character of an old soldiers' association. 
But this cannot be the meaning of an institution that calls 
itself not a soldiers 9 but a defense league, and that by its 
very name tries to express that it sees its mission not only 
in upholding tradition and in establishing a common bond 
among former soldiers, but in the training of the defense 
idea and in the practical carrying-out of this idea, that 
means in creating a military body. 

This task, however, imperatively requires the training 
of the hitherto militarily still undrilled elements, and this 
is practically impossible. With a training of one or two 
hours a week one cannot create soldiers. With the enor- 
mously increased demands of today that the war service 
makes upon the individual, a two years' service is perhaps 
barely sufficient in order to turn the untrained young man 
into a trained soldier. On the front we all had before our 
eyes the terrible consequences resulting for young soldiers 
who were not thoroughly educated in the craft of war. 
Formations of volunteers, who during fifteen and twenty 
weeks had been drilled with iron determination and with 
infinite devotion, represented nothing but cannon fodder 
on the front. Only if apportioned to the ranks of old ex- 
perienced soldiers could younger recruits, trained for four 
to six months, become useful members of a regiment; 
thereby they were led by the old ones and then they grew 
gradually up to their tasks. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 795 

In view of this how hopeless appears the attempt at 
educating a troop, without distinct power of command and 
without sizable means, by a so-called training of one or two 
hours a week! With this one can perhaps freshen up old 
soldiers, but one can never turn young people into soldiers. 

How indifferent and completely futile such a procedure 
would be in its results can especially be proved by the fact 
that during the same time in which a so-called voluntary 
defense league with the greatest troubles and difficulties 
only just trains or tries to train for the military idea a few 
thousand people, good-natured in themselves (it cannot get 
at others at all), the State itself, by the pacifist democratic 
manner of education, methodically robs millions and mil- 
lions of young people of their natural instincts, poisons their 
logical patriotic thinking, and so gradually transforms them 
into a herd of sheep, patient towards any kind of high- 
handed proceeding. 

How ridiculous, in the face of this, are all the efforts on 
the part of the defense leagues of trying to impart their 
ideas to German youth ! 

But almost more important is the following viewpoint 
which always made me take a position opposed to any 
attempt at a so-called military defense training on the 
basis of voluntary associations:-* 

Supposing that despite the abovementioned difficulties 
an association should nevertheless succeed in training, year 
after year, a certain number of Germans to become able- 
bodied men, and that, with regard to their loyalty as well 
as to their physical efficiency and schooling in arms, the 
result would nevertheless be naught in a State which, ac- 
cording to its entire tendency, does not at all desire or even 
hates such a development of the defensive abilities, as it 
completely contradicts the innermost aim of its rulers, that 
means the corrupters of this State. 

But in any case such a result would be of no value under 



796 MEIN KAMPF 

governments which not only have proved by their actions 
that they do not care in the least for the military strength 
of the nation, but which above all would never be willing to 
direct an appeal to this force, except perhaps for the sup- 
port of their own corruptive existence. 

Yet today this is so. Or, is it not ridiculous to try to 
drill, in the twilight of dawn, a regiment of some ten 
thousand men, although a few years previously the State 
gave up most wretchedly eight and a half million of best- 
trained soldiers, not only no longer utilized them, but as the 
thanks of their sacrifices even exposed them to general 
disgrace? Now one wants to train soldiers for a State 
r6gime that blemished and spat upon the most glorious 
soldiers of yore, had the marks of honor torn from their 
chests, took away from them their badges, trampled upon 
their flags and degraded their achievements! Or, has this 
present State r6gime even taken one single step toward 
restoring the honor of the old army, and to call to account 
its corrupters and defamers? Not in the least. On the con- 
trary: we can see the latter enthroned in the highest State 
offices. What did one say at Leipzig: 'Right goes with 
might.' But since today in our Republic might lies in the 
hands of the same men who once kindled the Revolution, 
but since this Revolution represents the most infamous high 
treason, nay, the most wretched villainy in all of German 
history, one can actually find no reason at all that the power 
of just these characters, by forming a new army, should be 
increased. All reason speaks against it. 
f But what value this State, even after the Revolution oi 
1918, ascribed to the military strengthening of its position 
issued once more clearly and unambiguously from the 
attitude it took to the then existing great self-defense organ- 
izations. As long as they had to step in for the protection 
of personally cowardly creatures of the Revolution, they 
were not unwelcome. But as soon as, thanks to the gradual 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 797 

depravity of our people, the danger appeared as averted 
and the existence of the associations now meant a national 
political strengthening, they were superfluous, and one did 
everything in order to disarm them, even, if possible, to 
disperse them. 

History demonstrates the gratitude of monarchs in only 
rare cases. But only a neo-bourgeois patriot is able to count 
on gratitude from murderous pyromaniacs, exploiters and 
traitors of the nation. When examining the problem 
whether voluntary defense leagues should be created, I 
could never refrain from asking the question : For whom do 
I train the young people? For what purpose are they used 
and when are they to be called up? The answer to this 
offers at the same time the guiding principles for one's own 
attitude. &lt;+ 

If the present State were ever to come back to trained 
units of this kind, this would never be done for a representa- 
tion of national interests abroad, but always as a protection 
of the rapers of the nation in the interior against the general 
fury of the deceived, betrayed, and sold people that will 
perhaps flare up some day. 

For this reason alone, the S.A. [Storm Detachment] of 
the N.S.G.W.P. was not allowed to have anything to do 
with a military organization. It was a means for protection 
and education of the National Socialist movement, and its 
tasks lay in a domain entirely different from that of so-called 
defense leagues. 

Also, it was not supposed to have the character of a 
secret organization. The purpose of secret organizations 
can only be an illegal one. This fact, however, limits auto- 
matically the size of such an organization. It is impossi- 
ble especially in view of the talkativeness of the German 
people to build up an organization of conceivable size 
and at the same time to keep it secret from outsiders, or 
even to disguise its aims. Any such intention will be frus- 



798 MEIN KAMPF 

trated a thousand times. Not only that today our police 
authorities have at their disposal a staff of pimps and simi- 
lar rabble who for the Judas reward of thirty pieces of 
silver betray what they can find, and invent what could 
be betrayed, even the very members of the organization 
can never be brought to observe the silence necessary in 
such a case. Only very small groups, through a sieving 
process of many years, can assume the character of real 
secret organizations. But the very smallness of such forma- 
tions would eliminate their value for the National Socialist 
movement. What we needed, and what we need, were and are 
not a hundred or two hundred daring plotters, but a hundred 
thousand and again a hundred thousand fanatical fighters for 
our view of life. The work has to be done, not in secret con- 
venticles, but in enormous mass demonstrations, and not by 
dagger and poison or pistol can the way be paved for the 
movement, but by the conquest of the streets. We have to drive 
home to Marxism that the future master of the streets will be 
National Socialism, exactly as some day it will be the master 
of the State. 

Today the danger of secret organizations lies further in 
the fact that its members frequently completely misunder- 
stand the greatness of the task and that, instead, the 
opinion is formed that actually the destiny of a nation could 



An allusion to the Organization-Consul which during the 
years following the War had to its credits most of the murders 
and attacks perpetrated on unpopular members of the govern- 
ment. Other secret organizations included the Thule Gescll- 
schaft, which at one time owned the Vdlkischer Beobachter, 
and the Kampfverband Sachsen, to which Manfred Killinger 
belonged. During the years 1920-1930, National Socialism 
appears to have had no secret organization. Now, however, 
the Party has at its command the dread Gestapo, a secret police 
organization modeled on the Russian Ogpu. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 799 

suddenly be decided upon in a favorable sense by a single 
murder. Such a belief can have an historical justification 
whenever a people groans under the tyranny of some in- 
genious oppressor of whom one knows that only his superior 
personality alone guarantees the inner solidity and the 
terror of the hostile pressure. In such an event it may 
happen that out of the nation there suddenly emerges a 
man who, willing to sacrifice himself, thrusts the weapon 
of death into the chest of the hated one. And only the 
republican mind of guilt-conscious small rascals will look 
upon such a deed as the most loathsome act, while the 
greatest bard of our nation's freedom has dared to give a 
glorification of such a deed in his 'Tell/ 

In the years 1919 and 1920 there existed the danger that 
some member of a secret organization, carried away by the 
great models of history and deeply stirred by the father- 
land's misfortune, might try to take vengeance on the 
corrupters of the home country in the belief that by this he 
could make an end of the distress of his people. But any 
such attempt was folly for the reason that Marxism had not 
been victorious thanks to the superior ingeniousness and 
the personal importance of a single individual, but rather 
by the boundless wretchedness, the cowardly failure of the 
bourgeois world. The most cruel criticism that one can 
apply to our bourgeoisie is the statement that the Revolu- 
tion itself has not brought forth one single head of any 
importance and that nevertheless the bourgeoisie surren- 
dered to it. It is understandable, to a certain degree, that 
one capitulates to a Robespierre, Danton, or Marat, but it 
is catastrophic to have gone down on one's knees before 
the lean Scheidemann, the fat Herr Erzberger, and a 
Friedrich Ebert and all the countless other political nit- 
wits. Actually, there was not one head in which one could 
perhaps have seen the ingenious man of the Revolution and 
with it the misfortune of the fatherland, but there were only 



800 MEIN KAMPF 

revolutionary bedbugs, knapsack Spartacists, en gros and 
en dttati. To do away with any one of them was completely 
beside the point and had, at the utmost, the consequence 
that some other just as great and just as thirsty leeches 
would have stepped into his place all the more readily. 
f In those years one could not proceed sharply enough 
against a conception that had its cause and origin in really 
great phenomena of history, but which did not fit in the 
least into the momentary era of dwarfs. 

The same reflection must be made in the question of the 
elimination of so-called traitors of the country. It is ridicu- 
lously illogical to kill a fellow who has betrayed a cannon, 
while next door in the highest offices there sit scoundrels 
who sold an entire realm, who have two millions of dead on 
their consciences, who must be made responsible for millions 
of cripples, but who meanwhile unperturbedly go about 
carrying on their republican business transactions. To 
abolish small traitors of the country is senseless in a State 
whose very government frees these traitors of the country 
from all punishment. For thus it may happen that some 
day the honest idealist, who for the sake of his nation does 
away with a villainous traitor of arms, is called to account 
by capital traitors of the country. And here arises the im- 
portant question : Should one dispose of such a treacherous 
small creature by another creature in turn, or by an idealist? 
In the first case the success is doubtful and future treason 
almost certain; in the second case a small scoundrel is 
abolished and thereby the life of an idealist who cannot be 
replaced is perhaps endangered. 

For the rest, my attitude in this question is that one 
should not hang the little thieves in order to let the big ones 
escape; but that some day a German national court will 
have to sentence and to execute some ten thousand of the 
organizing and thus responsible criminals of the November 
treason and of all that is involved in this. Such an example 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 801 

will then also be the necessary lesson for the little traitor of 
arms, once and for all. 

All these are reflections which caused me to prohibit 
again and again the participation in secret organizations and 
to guard the S.A. against assuming the character of such 
organizations. In those years I kept the National Socialist 
movement from experiments whose executors were in the 
most cases glorious, idealistically minded young Germans, 
but whose deed made them personally the victim, while 
they were not in the least able to improve the destiny of the 
fatherland.-* 



However, if the S.A. was allowed to be neither a military 
defense organization nor a secret association, the following 
consequences were bound to result from this fact: 

(l) Its training has to be carried out, not according to 
military viewpoints, but according to those of party expediency. 

In so far as by this the members have to be trained 
physically, the main accent must not be put on military 
drill, but rather on sport activity. To me boxing and jiujitsu 
have always appeared more important than some inferior, 
because half-hearted, training in shooting. Give the German 
nation six million bodies, faultlessly trained in sports, all 
of them glowing with love of country, and trained for the 
highest spirit of attack, and a national State if necessary 
in less than two years will have turned them into an 
army, at least in so far as there already exists a basic stock 

The nature of Hitler's relations with the Reichswehr remains 
an interesting conundrum. Prior to 1923, he had good con- 
nections in Roehm and General von Epp. They succeeded, for 
example, in getting him permission to stage a Party convention 
in Munich early in 1-923, though the police had officially for- 
bidden it. Afterward, however, the commanding generala 



802 MEIN KAMPF 

for this. But such as the situation is today, this basic stock 
can only be the Reichswehr and not a defense league that 
has stuck in half-heartedness. The physical strengthening 
has to inoculate into the individual the conviction of his 
superiority which forever lies only in the consciousness of 
his own strength; in addition, it is to furnish him with that 
skill in sports which serves as a weapon for the defense of 
the movement. 

(2) In order to prevent the movement from the very beginning 
from assuming a secret character, its very size apart from 
the clothing immediately recognizable to everybody has to 
point out the way which is useful to the movement and which is 
known to the public at large. It must not meet secretly, but 
must march under the open sky, and thus it has to be led 
unambiguously to an activity that once and forever destroys 

demonstrably took little interest in so heterogeneous and 
rowdy a mob as the S.A. The 'fat paunches' of these men 
were notorious. Their brown shirts dated back to an inspired 
moment in the life of Lieutenant Rossbach, who saw that every 
other color had already been appropriated by other martial 
groups, and hit upon cheap, serviceable sail cloth. They 
were decorated in addition with swastika-inscribed arm- 
bands, black leather boots, and belts reminiscent of the old 
army. They looked for all the world like boy scouts well past 
the age limit. They copied the Fascist salute; they were 
given to singing songs (e.g., the Horst-Wcssel Lied). Neverthe- 
less Roehm dreamed he could make a fighting force out of this 
outfit, for reasons best known to himself. 

Why this organization, which proclaimed its readiness to 
destroy the Republic, was not forbidden is a question that 
takes one deep into the mysteries of political life under the 
Weimar Republic. In the first place, the Reich government was 
afraid to suppress the particularism of Bavaria, both because 
the votes of the ruling parties there were needed to form the 
difficult Reichstag coalitions, and doubtless also because the 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 803 

all legends of a 'secret organization.' In order to detach it, 
also spiritually, from all attempts at satisfying its effective- 
ness by small plots, it had to be fully initiated into the 
great idea of the movement from the start, and it had to be 
trained so completely in the task of embodying this idea 
that from the very beginning its horizon expanded and that 
the individual did not see his mission in removing some 
smaller or greater scoundrel, but in staking himself for the 
establishment of a new National Socialist folkish State. 
By this, however, the fight against the State of today was 
taken out of the atmosphere of small actions of revenge and 
plotting and was lifted up tQ the greatness of a war of 
destruction conceived by a view of life against Marxism 
and its creatures. 

(3) The organization of the S.A., as well as its uniforms 



experience of the Kapp putsch had shown that states independ- 
ent of Prussia might prove havens in times of troubles. In 
addition that government had to conserve its strength, and 
to discourage by displays of good will separatistic tendencies. 
But unfortunately the Bavaria of the years between 1923 and 
1929 was practically in the hands of monarchists fearful of 
seeming less patriotic than the rankest ranter for 'strong 
methods.' When Dr. Franz Guertner, conservative Minister 
of Justice, arranged after the 1923 putsch that Hitler was to 
serve nine months only and that afterward he was to go about 
as always, his associates in the government did not dare to 
protest. Someone might have doubted their patriotism. 

In Prussia the situation was different. Hitler was forbidden 
to speak for years, but the only reason this veto was sustained 
was because a minor official in the Ministry of the Interior 
Dr. Karl Abegg refused to give way. Social Democratic 
leaders like Karl Severing and Paul Loebe believed that for- 
bidding Hitler to speak was a violation of the right of free 
speech. Nazi formations in Prussia did not, as a result, become 
important until after the 1930 elections. Then they were 



304 MEIN KAMPF 

and outfit, has to be carried out not according to the meaning oj 
the examples of the old army, but according to an expediency, 
motivated by its task. 

These viewpoints which guided me in the years 1920 and 
1921, and which I gradually tried to inoculate into the 
young organization, had the effect that up to the summer of 
1922 we had already at our disposal a considerable number 
of detachments of one hundred men each, which during the 
late fall of 1922 received by and by their specially dis- 
tinguishing uniforms. Three events were infinitely signifi- 
cant for the further shaping of the S.A. 

(i) The great general demonstration of all patriotic 
associations against the Law for the Protection of the 
Republic on the Konigsplatz in Munich, in the late summer 
of 1922. 

At that time the patriotic associations of Munich had 



probably advantageous to the government, which was attempt- 
ing to talk the Allies into concessions on reparations and other 
things. For the spectacle of dissatisfaction in Germany, and 
the threat to world stability which this dissatisfaction involved, 
were talking points in its favor. Having been assured of support 
from President Hindenburg and the army, Chancellor Brtining 
also believed that if the worst came to the worst he could 
always put down an insurrection. It seemed probable also 
that the money which was contributed by industrialists to the 
S.A. would be withdrawn, if a diplomatic victory of any 
importance could be achieved. 

After the re-election of President Hindenburg in 1932, the 
S.A. was forbidden throughout the Reich by General Groener, 
then Minister of the Interior. The effect of this action was 
largely wasted, however, when Groener, suffering from a bad 
cold, went to the Reichstag and made an ineffectual speech. 
In addition he had become involved in a somewhat ludicrous 
love affair. These were, however, minor details. Of decisive 
importance was the fact that the French and the British post* 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 805 

issued an appeal which as a protest against the introduction 
of the Law for the Protection of the Republic invited to a 
gigantic demonstration in Munich. The National Socialist 
movement, too, was to take part in it. The closed line-up 
of the party was headed by six detachments from Munich of 
one hundred men each, which were followed by the section 
of the political party. In the column itself two bands of 
music marched, and about fifteen flags were carried. The 
arrival of the National Socialist on the large square that 
was already half filled, but which otherwise showed no 
flags, gave vent to an enormous enthusiasm. I myself 
had the honor to be allowed to speak as one of the ora- 
tors before the multitude now counting sixty thousand 
heads. 

The success of the rally was overwhelming, especially 
for the reason that despite all red threats it was proved 
for the first time that national Munich too was able to 
march in the streets, f Members of red republican defense 
leagues, who tried to proceed with terror against the march- 
ing columns, were driven asunder with bloody heads by the 
S.A. detachments of one hundred within a few minutes* 
At that time the National Socialist movement showed for 
the first time its determination to claim for the future the 
right to the streets for itself also and thus to wrench this 
monopoly from the hands of the international peoples' 
traitors and enemies of the country. 

The result of this day was the no longer contestable proof 



poned making any contribution to the settlement of Germany's 
problems. Even the effect of the Hoover moratorium was lost 
by reason of France's fears lest support from the United States 
and England make Germany's position too strong. Under such 
conditions, the intrigue which had meanwhile been developing 
round about the person of the aged President achieved its 
purpose, and the fateful Papen Cabinet was appointed. 



806 MEIN KAMPF 

of the psychological and also organizational correctness of 
our opinion about the construction of the S.A. 

The latter now was energetically expanded on the basis 
that had proved so successful, so that barely a few weeks 
later twice the number of detachments of a hundred men 
was put up in Munich.** 

(2) The march to Coburg in October, 1922. 

'Folkish' associations intended to hold a so-called 'Ger- 
man Day' at Coburg. I myself received an invitation to 
this, with the remark that it would be desirable if I would 
bring some people to escort me. This request, which was 
handed to me at eleven o'clock in the morning, suited me 
very well. Not more than an hour later the arrangements 
for visiting this German day had been made. As the ' escort ' 
I ordered eight hundred men of the S.A., who in about 
fourteen detachments of one hundred were to be dispatched 
by special train from Munich to the little town that had 
become Bavarian. Similar orders were dispatched to the 
National Socialist S.A. groups which meanwhile had been 
formed in other places. 

It was the first time that such a special train had run in 
Germany. At all places where additional S.A. men got in, 
the transport roused greatest attention. Many people had 
never before seen our flags; the impression they made was 
very great. 

Upon arriving at the station at Coburg, we were received 
by a deputation of the organizers of the ' German Day,' who 
brought us an order, called an * agreement,' from the local 
trade unions, that is, from the Independent and from the 
Communist Party, to the effect that we were not allowed to 
enter the town with flags unfurled and not with music (we 
had brought a band of our own of forty-two men) and not 
in dosed columns. 

I at once flatly rejected such disgraceful conditions, but 
did not omit to express, to those of the organizers of this 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 807 

rally who were present, my surprise at their having nego- 
tiated with these people and having made agreements with 
them, and I declared that the S.A. would immediately line 
up in detachments of hundreds and would march into the 
town with resounding music and with flags flying. 

And thus it happened. 

Already on the square in front of the station we were 
received by a bawling and yowling multitude, counting 
many thousands. 'Murderers/ 'bandits/ 'robbers/ 'crimi- 
nals/ were the pet names which the exemplary founders of 
the German Republic lovingly showered upon us. The 
young S.A. maintained perfect order, the detachments were 
formed on the square in front of the station, and at first they 
took no notice of the abuses. By frightened police officials 
the marching procession was escorted through the town, 
completely unknown to us, not, as arranged, to our quarters 
a shooting gallery situated at the periphery of Coburg 
but to the Hofbrauhauskeller, near the center of the town. 
To the left and to the right of the procession the uproar of 
the accompanying masses of people increased more and 
more. Hardly had the last detachment turned into the 
courtyard of the Keller than immediately, under ear- 
splitting noise, great masses tried to push after them. In 
order to prevent this, the police locked the Keller. Since 
this condition was unbearable, I ordered the S.A. to line up 
once more, shortly admonished them, and demanded of the 
police the immediate opening of the gates. After lengthy 
hesitation they yielded. 

Now we marched back the way we had come, in order to 
arrive at our quarters, and now indeed one had finally to 
make a stand. After shouting and insulting calls had not 
been able to disturb the poise of the detachments, the 
representatives of the true Socialism, of Equality and 
Fraternity, began to throw stones. With this our patience 
was at an end, and so for ten minutes blows hailed down 



808 ME1N KAMPF 

destructively from the right and from the left, and after 
a quarter of an hour nothing red was seen any more in the 
streets. 

During the night heavy clashes occurred. S.A. patrols 
had found National Socialists, who had been attacked 
singly, in terrible condition. Thereupon we dealt sum- 
marily with the opponents. As early as on the following 
morning the red terror, under which Coburg had languished 
for years, had broken down. 

With typical Marxist-Jewish mendacity, with the help of 
leaflets, one now tried once more to chase the 'comrades of 
the international proletariat* into the streets, by alleging, 
with complete distortion of the facts, that our 'gangs of 
murderers' had started the 'war of extermination against 
peaceful workers' in Coburg. At half-past one the great 
'people's demonstration,' for which one hoped that tens 
of thousands of workers would arrive from the entire sur- 
roundings, was to take place. For this reason, firmly de- 
termined to make an end for good with the red terror, at 
noon I ordered the S.A., which meanwhile had increased to 
almost one and a half thousand men, to line up, and I set 
out with them on a march to the fortress of Coburg, across 
the great square in which the red demonstration was to 
take place. I wanted to see whether they would dare once 
more to molest us. Upon entering the square, there were, 
instead of the announced ten thousand, only a few hundred, 
who, when we approached, kept generally quiet, partly took 
to their heels. Only in a few places red troops, which mean- 
while had come in from the outside and who did not yet 
know us, tried to molest us again ; but at the drop of a hat 
they lost all inclination of doing so. And now one could see 
how the hitherto anxiously intimidated population slowly 
woke up, how they summoned courage, how by calling and 
waving they dared to greet us, and in the evening, when we 
marched away, in many places broke out in spontaneous 
jubilation. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 809 

t At the station the railway staff suddenly declared that 
they would not run our train. Thereupon I notified some of 
the gang leaders that in this case I intended to catch which- 
ever of the red bosses should fall into my hands, and that 
then we personally would run the train, and that we in- 
tended to take with us a few dozens of the brethren of the 
international solidarity on the locomotive and on the tender, 
and in each coach. I did not omit to point out to the gentle- 
men that with our own forces the trip would of course be an 
infinitely risky enterprise and that it would not be impos- 
sible that all of us would break our necks and our bones. 
But we would rejoice that then we would leave for the 
hereafter at least not alone, but in equality and fraternity 
with the red gentlefolk. 

Thereupon the train started on time, and on the following 
morning we arrived in Munich. 

Thus at Coburg, the citizens' equality in the eyes of the 
law was restored for the first time since the year 1914. For 
if today some nitwit of a higher official ventures to assert 
that the State protects the lives of its citizens, this was not 
true for those days; for in those days the citizens had to 
defend themselves against the representatives of the State 
of today. 

The significance of this day and its consequences could 
at first not be fully evaluated. Not only that the victorious 
S.A. was extremely strengthened in its self-confidence and 
in its belief in the correctness of its leadership, but also the 
rest of the world began to occupy itself with us more closely, 
and for the first time many recognized in the National 
Socialist movement that institution which in all probability 
would some day be called upon to make an end with Marxist 
lunacy. 

Only democracy groaned that one dared not to have one's 
skull smashed without offering resistance, but that in 
a democratic republic we had dared to oppose a brutal 



810 MEIN KAMPF 

attack with fists and sticks instead of with pacifistic songs. 

The bourgeois press in general was partly miserable, 
partly mean, as usual, and only a few honest newspapers 
welcomed the fact that at least in one place one had made 
an end to the activity of the Marxist freebooters. 

In Coburg itself, however, at least a part of the Marxist 
workers who, incidentally, had to be looked upon as 
merely seduced had learned to see, taught by the fists of 
National Socialist workers, that these workers also fight 
for ideals, since experience shows that one deals out blows 
only for something in which one believes and which one 
loves. 

But the S.A. had the greatest advantage itself. Now it 
grew very rapidly, so that on the Party Day on January 27, 
1923, almost six thousand men took part in the presentation 
of the colors and the first detachments of one hundred were 
completely clad in their new uniforms.*^ 

Indeed, the experiences in Coburg had shown how 
necessary it is to introduce a uniform outfit of the S.A., 
not only in order to strengthen the esprit de corps, but also 
in order to avoid confusion and to prevent mutual non- 
recognition. Up till then they wore only arm bands; now 
the windbreaker and the well-known cap were added. 

But the experiences of Coburg had the further significance 
that now we set out to break systematically the red terror 



These methods were employed until the end. The Berlin 
Germania estimated that between January i, 1923, and July 
31, 1931, 457 persons had been killed and 1154 seriously 
wounded in political dashes. The losses were apportioned as 
follows: Communist organizations had 323 dead and 750 
wounded; Hitlerite and kindred groups had 86 dead and 257 
wounded; the Republican organizations (Reichsbanner) had 
34 dead; and the police reported 14 dead. After July 31, 1931, 
the figures mounted higher and higher. During the first nine 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 811 

in all places where for many years it had prevented all 
meetings of people with different opinions, and to restore 
the freedom of assembly. From now on National Socialist 
battalions were again and again called together in such 
places, and in Bavaria gradually one red stronghold after 
the other fell victim to the National Socialist propaganda. 
The S.A. had more and more grown up to its task, and thus 
it was more and more removed from the senseless and life- 
less character of a defense movement, and had risen to 
become the living, fighting organization for the establish- 
ment of a new German State. 

This logical development lasted up to March, 1923. 
Then an event occurred which forced me to take the move- 
ment from its previous course and to lead it to a change. 

(3) The occupation of the Ruhr district in the first months 

months of 1932, 155 persons were slain. The Communist 
'Red Front' was the heaviest loser, being the least efficiently 
armed. The most sensational single occurrence was the *Po- 
tempa Murder* of 1932. Five Nazis had taken literally the 
songs they learned, and had slain a worker in a little Silesian 
village in a truly bestial fashion. They were caught and 
sentenced to death. Hitler thereupon declared that five men 
who had acted for the good of the nation must not be treated 
like criminals. The popular revulsion at this expression of 
solidarity with the assassins showed that Hitler had made the 
greatest blunder of his career. But Papen was not the man to 
take advantage of such a situation. The five murderers were 
not executed. 

After 1930, the Nazis developed a plan for surrounding the 
official districts of Berlin with a cordon of Nazi cantonments, 
from which an assault on the government could be launched at 
any time. In 1932 Hitler proposed staging a three-day attack 
on the Communists. This suggestion was not accepted. There 
were 108 Nazi 'homes' in the city, housing jobless men and 
supplying them with food and clothing. The guests were given 



12 ME1N KAMPF 

of the year 1923 by the French had in the time that followed 
a great significance for the development of the S.A. 

Even today it is not possible, and especially for reasons 
of national interests it is not expedient, to speak or to write 
about this with full publicity. I can speak only so far as this 
subject has been touched upon in public negotiations and 
has thereby been made known to the public. 

The occupation of the Ruhr district, which was no sur- 
prise to us, gave birth to the well-founded hope that now 
we would break forever with the cowardly policy of evasion 
and that thereby the defense leagues would be given a quite 
definite task. The S.A., too, which at that time embraced 
many thousands of young, vigorous men, was not to be 
excluded from this national service. In the spring and in 
the midsummer of the year 1923 its re-orientation towards 



regular courses of instruction in the arts of street fighting. As 
for the cantonments proper, they were situated for the most 
part within a kind of triangle running from Steglitz northward 
to the working-class district of Wedding. Some of the largest 
were, however, situated in the outskirts of the city. All this 
was futile as long as the control of the Prussian police remained 
in good hands; but Papen's coup d'&amp;tat in 1932, when he ousted 
the Prussian ministry, naturally removed every guarantee of 
security. 

The Machtcrgrrifung itself was potted with scenes of violence 
too numerous and too devious to have been chronicled. Some 
estimate of the extent of the disorder may be obtained if one 
notes that at least fifty foreign Jews were attacked and beaten. 
The number of slain, maltreated and imprisoned Communists 
will never be known. More than three thousand Social Demo- 
cratic functionaries were jailed. Virtually every person of any 
importance in the Bavarian People's Party was imprisoned. 
There have been numerous eye-witness accounts of certain 
aspects of the scene. One of the best is doubtless / Was Hitler's 
Prisoner, by Stefan Lorant. 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 813 

a military fighting organization took place. To this the 
later development of the year 1923 has to be ascribed in 
part, in so far as it concerned our movement. 

Since I am dealing with the development of the year 1923 
in great outlines in another place, I here will state only that 
the reshaping of the S.A. of that time if the presumptions 
that led to its reshaping, that means the resuming of the 
active resistance against France, were incorrect was 
injurious from the viewpoint of the movement. 

The close of the year 1923, however terrible it may seem 
at first sight, looked at from a higher instance was almost 
necessary in so far as thereby at one blow it ended the 
re-orientation of the S.A., made insignificant by the attitude 
of the German Reich's government which was now in- 
jurious and thus created the possibility that some day one 



Hitler does not describe in detail the putsch of 1923, which 
disrupted the Party and might have meant its disappearance 
from German life if the Bavarian government of the time had 
been anything else than the Bavarian government of that 
time. In essence the putsch was simple enough. The Ruhr 
invasion and 4 passive resistance* had undermined the last 
pillars of German economic society. International conciliation, 
the thorny road taken by Wirth, Rathenau, and Stresemann, 
seemed an impasse. The Hitlerites believed that the Bavarian 
monarchists were planning a new move to effect a restoration ; 
and therefore they resolved to secure, by hook or by crook, 
leadership of that movement for themselves and turn the whole 
venture into a Mussoliniesque march on Berlin. Hitler, in a 
move that blended theater with drama, captured Herr von 
Kahr (the monarchist manager) and General von Lossow (the 
Reichswehr commander in Munich), and obtained from them 
half a promise of support. But afterward Lossow backed out, 
and Kahr ordered a sign posted up saying that the National 
Socialist Party had been forbidden. But Hitler still had Lu- 
dendorff; and together with the real victor of Tannenbere 



814 MEIN KAMPF 

could build up again where once one was forced to leave the 
right track. 

The N.S.G.W.P., newly founded in the year 1925, has 
again to establish, to train, and to organize its S.A. accord- 
ing to the aforementioned principles. Thus it has to return 
to the originally sound viewpoints, and again it has to 
consider it its highest task to create in its S.A. an instru- 
ment for the representation and the strengthening erf the 
movement's fight for a view of life. 

It must not tolerate that the S.A. either fall down to some 
kind of defense league or that it become a secret organiza- 
tion ; but what is more, it has to endeavor to build it up to 
become a guard of a hundred thousand men, fitting for the 
National Socialist, and with it the deepest folkish, idea. 



and a column of armed men he undertook the historic march 
through Munich on November 9, 1923. 

The Bavarian State police fired, a number of Nazis fell dead. 
The wounded Hitler fled, was picked up by an automobile, 
and eventually found a haven in the home of his friend Ernst 
Hanfstaengl. Ludendorff marched on, the police let him pass, 
and the great revolution was over. In the trial which followed, 
comedy was blended with strange revelations of the uncertainty 
which surrounded the future of Germany. The trial itself was 
a legal farce. The Reich laws for the protection of the Republic 
demanded that the instigators of attempts like this putsch 
were to be thrown out of Germany if they were not citizens. 
This regulation the judge seemingly ignored. Some Bavarians 
maintain, however, that an attempt was made at this time to 
send Hitler back to Austria, but that Vienna refused to allow 
him to enter. 

After Hitler's release from prison, the S.A. was reorganized, 
the new leader being Captain Pfeffer, a former Free Corps 
commander, who remained in office until 1930 when, as a 
consequence of the animosity of Goebbels and Goering, he 
was promoted to the dignity of a Reichstag deputy. Roehm 



ORGANIZATION OF THE STORM TROOP 815 

took command. In a special order Hitler insisted that the 
organization must remain what it had been 'until 1923* not 
a military organization, but a bodyguard ready to 'keep order 1 
at assemblies and to 'keep the streets clear* when demonstra- 
tions were being held. To a certain extent the organization 
was modeled on that of the old Free Corps, especially the 
Einwohnerwahrcn commanded by Escherisch. Technically con- 
sidered, its structure was adapted to meet the requirements of 
men who were to meet regularly in small groups. Thirteen 
men constituted a Gruppe\ three Gruppen formed a Truppe; 
two Truppen equaled a Sturm. Furthermore, several Truppen 
form a Standarte, which when multiplied by two became a 
Gausturm, which multiplied similarly became a Brigade. The 
commonly accepted abbreviations for these units in the order 
named were Gritf, Truf, Stuf, Gaustuj, Brigaf. The highest 
leader was the Osaf, and as such wielded considerable power. 
It was inevitable that Hitler should constantly have to safe- 
guard his supreme authority against possible attacks from 
this quarter. 

Released from prison, Hitler was cautious. To this time there 
dates back his villa at Berchtesgaden, long the seat of Prince 
Rupprecht's summer residence. The site chosen was a little 
property belonging to a Hamburg merchant, who had offered 
it for rent. It was situated on the slope of a mountain known 
as the Obersalzberg. Hitler needed a place from which he 
could, in case of necessity, flee to Austria and thence to Italy. 
After 1933, the remodeled villa became more famous. Recently 
an important addition was made. A shaft was sunk through 
the mountain stone, an elevator was installed, and a perch 
erected above on which the Fiihrer can meditate alone or in 
company. 



CHAPTER X 
FEDERALISM AS A MASK 



IN THE winter of the year 1919, and even more in the 
spring and summer of 1920, the young party was com- 
pelled to adopt a position on a question which had al- 
ready acquired unusual importance during the War. In 
the first volume, in a brief description of the characteris- 
tics of the impending German collapse which had become 
apparent to me, I referred to the special type of propaganda 
emanating from English as well as from French quarters for 
the incitement of the old split between North and South. 
In the spring of 1915 appeared the first systematic agita- 
tional leaflets against Prussia as the War's sole culprit. 
By 1916 this system had become a complete structure, as 
slick as it was base. The incitement of South Germans 
against North Germans, based on the lowest of instincts, 
began to bear fruit after a little while, too. Against the con- 
trolling authorities of the time, both in the government and 
in the army command more accurately in the Bavarian 
headquarters must be made the unavoidable charge 
that, because of a damnable confusion and neglect of duty, 
these officials did not intervene against this with the neces- 
sary determination. Nothing was done! On the contrary, 
in certain quarters it seemed that this was not regarded so 
unfavorably and people were, perhaps, so narrow-minded 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 817 

as to think that by such propaganda not only would an 
obstacle be placed in the way of the development of the 
German people towards unity, but that thereby there must 
automatically also ensue a strengthening of federalist 
forces. Rarely in history has a malicious oversight been 
more maliciously avenged. The weakening, which was de- 
stined for Prussia, affected all Germany. Its result was the 
facilitation of collapse, which, however, wrecked not only 
Germany as a whole, but primarily the particular States 
themselves. 

Yet it certainly would be false to think that the manufac- 
ture of this anti-Prussian sentiment is attributable solely 
to hostile war propaganda, and that there existed no 
grounds for justification in the people it affected. The in- 
credible methods of our war-time economic organization, 
which placed a guardian and robber over the entire Reich 
territory by means of a really insane centralization, was a 
dominant cause of the rise of that anti-Prussian attitude. 
Because the war societies, which had their headquarters in 
Berlin, and Berlin itself, meant to the average small man the 
same thing as Prussia. The fact that the organizers of these 
institutions for theft, known as war societies, were neither 
Berliners nor Prussians, in fact, not Germans at all, was 
then barely realized by the individual. He saw only the 
great failure and the constant encroachments of these 
hated establishments in the Reich capital, and thereupon 
naturally projected his entire hatred equally onto that 
capital and Prussia, especially since, in certain quarters, 
not only was nothing done to prevent this, but such an in- 
terpretation was even secretly greeted with a smirk. 

The Jew was far too smart not to understand even then 
that the infamous campaign of robbery which he organized 
against the German people under cover of the war societies 
would, indeed, have to awaken opposition. As long as this 
did not grab for his throat, he did not have to worry- To 



818 MEIN KAMPF 

prevent an explosion of the maddened and rebellious people 
in this direction, however, there could be no better recipe 
than to have their anger flame out in some other direction 
and thus exhaust it. 

f Let Bavarians fight Prussians and Prussians fight 
Bavarians, the more the better! The hottest conflict be- 
tween the two signified the surest peace for the Jews. Gen- 
eral attention was then completely diverted from the inter- 
national maggots of nations; they seemed to have been for- 
gotten. And if ever there seemed to arise the danger that 
the thoughtful element, of which there were many in Bava- 
ria, too, was calling for investigation, intervention, and 
restraint, and thereby threatening to wash out the embit- 
tered conflict, the Jew in Berlin needed only to stage some 
new provocation and await its success. Immediately all 
the exploiters of this fight between the North and the South 
jumped at every such occurrence, blowing on it until the 
glow of resentment broke into a roaring flame. 

In those days the Jew was playing a slick and polished 
game, constantly to preoccupy and divert the various 
German clans in order, meanwhile, to plunder them more 
thoroughly. &lt; 

Then came the Revolution. 

If, down to the year 1918, or rather down to November 
of that year, the average man, and especially the meagerly 
cultured Babbitt and worker, particularly in Bavaria, still 
could not properly understand the real origin and inevitable 
consequences of this mutual conflict of German clans, at 
least the self -dominated 'nationalist' section should have 
grasped it on the day of the outbreak of the Revolution. 
For hardly had action begun before the leaders and organ- 
izers of the Revolution in Bavaria set themselves up as the 
representatives of 'Bavarian* interests. The international 
Jew, Kurt Eisner, began playing Bavaria off against Prussia. 
Of course, however, this Oriental, who had perpetually run 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 819 

around here and there throughout the rest of Germany 
as a journalistic canaille (Zeitungsjournaille), was just the 
last person to have been called on to defend Bavarian 
interests, and, of course, Bavaria was as indifferent to 
him as anything on the face of God's green earth could 
be. 

When Kurt Eisner gave the revolutionary uprising in 
Bavaria a thoroughly conscious impulse against the rest of 
the Reich, he did not in the slightest degree act on the basis of a 
Bavarian viewpoint, but only as Jewry's commissar. He 
utilized the existing instincts and aversions of the Bavarian 
people as a means of more easily smashing their Germany. 
The crushed Reich, however, would easily have become the 
loot of bolshevism. 

The tactics he applied were also continued right after 
his death. Marxism, which had always poured the blood- 
iest scorn particularly on the individual German States 
and their princes, suddenly, as an 'independent party/ 
called on just those very feelings and instincts which had 
their strongest roots in the princely houses and the individ- 
ual States. 

The struggle of the Republic of Councils against the ad- 
vancing troops of the liberation was worked up propagan- 
distically primarily as a 'struggle of Bavarian workers' 
against 'Prussian militarism.' This, too, is the only way of 
understanding why, quite differently from other German 
districts, the overthrow of the Republic of Councils in 

Eisner did, as a matter of fact, adopt a particularistic 
attitude. This was the result of his feeling that under his 
leadership Bavaria could treat for better peace terms. In 
fancying that President Wilson would favor him and his friends 
with special consideration, Eisner was, of course, quite naive. 
But this error does not make him responsible for Bavarian 
particularism, which is the birthright of every native. 



820 MEIN KAMPF 

Munich led not to the broad masses' recovery of their senses, 
but rather to a still greater embitterment and sullenness 
against Prussia. 

The skill with which the bolshevist agitators were able 
to represent the defeat of the Soviet republic as a 
'Prussian militarist' triumph over the 'anti-militarist' and 
4 anti- Prussian' Bavarian people, bore rich fruit. While 
Kurt Eisner got less than ten thousand supporters in Mu- 
nich in the elections to the legislative Bavarian Landtag, 
and the Communist Party less even than three thousand, 
both parties together increased to almost one hundred 
thousand voters after the collapse of the Republic. 

Already at this time my personal struggle against the 
insane mutal incitement of the German clans began. 

I doubt that I have ever in my life undertaken a more un- 
popular cause than my opposition of that time to Prussian- 
baiting. In Munich, as early as the 'Soviet' period, there 
had taken place the first mass meetings in which hate 
against the rest of Germany, and especially against Prussia, 
was whipped up to such a boiling point that not only was it 
a risk of his life for a North German to attend such a meet- 
ing, but the conclusion of such demonstrations generally 
quite frankly ended with insane shrieks of 'Break with 
Prussia!' 'Down with Prussia!' 'War against Prus- 
sia!' sentiments which a particularly brilliant German 
Reichstag representative of the interests of Bavarian 



This bitterness towards Prussia was due, of course, to worker 
resentment of the brutality that had marked the suppression 
of the 'Soviet' government. In addition, the overthrow of the 
Socialist government relegated the Social Democrats to a 
minor position after 1920. The Austrian workers, too, were 
similarly affected; and the appeal made to them by the 
legitimists after 1933 was largely based on denunciations 01 
Prussian militarism. 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 821 

sovereignty summed up iri the war-cry: 'Better to die Bava- 
rian than rot Prussian! 9 

t One must have gone through those meetings in order to 
understand what it meant for me when, surrounded by a 
handful of friends at a meeting in the Munich Lowen- 
brSukeller, I first offered resistance to this madness. My 
support came then from war comrades, and perhaps our 
feelings can be imagined when a demented mass of people 
who during the time we were defending the fatherland had, 
in greatest part, been running around as deserters or slack- 
ers at staff headquarters or back home, howled at us and 
threatened to knock us down. For me, it is true, this pain- 
ful incident had the virtue that my squad of faithful fol- 
lowers first felt itself united with me and was soon sworn to 
live or die with me. 

These fights, which were constantly repeated and which 
dragged out through the whole of 1919, seemed, just at the 
beginning of the year 1920, to have become sharper. There 
were meetings I remember particularly one in the Wag- 
nersaal on Sonnenstrasse in Munich in which my group, 
meanwhile grown larger, had to weather the fiercest strug- 
gles, which not infrequently ended with dozens of my ad- 
herents being mishandled, knocked down, trampled on, 
finally tossed out of the halls more dead than alive. &lt; 

The struggle which I first opened as an individual, 
backed solely by my war companions, was continued by 
the young movement as, I might almost say, a holy task. 

It is still a matter of pride to me that I can say that then 
dependent almost solely on our Bavarian supporters 
we nevertheless slowly but surely prepared the finish for 
this combination of stupidity and treason. I say stupidity 
and treason because, despite my complete conviction as to 
the stupid good intentions of the masses of followers, I can- 
not credit the organizers and inciters with such ingenuous- 
ness. I regarded them, and regard them still today, as 



822 MEIN KAMPF 

traitors bought and paid for by France. In one case, in the 
Dorten case, history has, indeed, already given its verdict. 
What was particularly dangerous to the cause then was 
the cleverness with which it was contrived to conceal real 
tendencies, by pushing federalist schemes to the fore as the 
sole motive for this impulse. It is certainly obvious that 
the stirring-up of anti-Prussianism has nothing to do with 
federalism. Rather remarkable, too, a 'federative activity' 
which strives to split or divide another federal State. For 
an honest federalist, to whom citations of the Bismarckian 
conception of the Reich did not constitute mendacious 
phrases, could not speak in the same breath of wanting to 
separate portions from the Prussian State which Bismarck 
created, or at least completed, could not even publicly sup- 
port such separatist tendencies. How they would have 
howled in Munich, had a conservative Prussian party 
favored the separation of Franconia from Bavaria, or even 
demanded and promoted it by public activity! One could 

Money from France did buttress this or that tendency to 
separatism in Bavaria. It may even have found its way into 
the Hitler movement. Hugo Machaus, one of the editors of 
the Volkischer Beobachter, was accused during 1923 of having 
accepted money from a French agent. Two other Germans, 
one a Munich official, were also implicated. Before the matter 
could be cleared up, Machaus had committed suicide. The 
French agent escaped. It was then noted that for a time the 
Volkischer Beobachtcr had pursued a policy favorable to France. 
No one holds that Hitler had any knowledge of these intrigues. 

Dr. Dorten was a Rhineland separatist leader. A Prussian 
lawyer, he had offered his services to the city of Cologne in 
1918. Little by little he emerged as the leader of a movement 
to form an independent Rhenish State, and (on his own ad- 
mission) the recipient of encouragement from the French 
military authorities. After an abortive attempt to proclaim 
his projected republic, Dorten fled to France. 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 823 

really feel sorry for all the honest federally inclined people, 
who had not seen through this infamous swindlers' game; 
for they were the ones primarily betrayed. By thus in- 
criminating the federative idea, its own supporters dug its 
grave. No federalist formation can be propagated for the 
Reich if the most essential link in such a State structure, 
that is, Prussia, is herself undermined, outraged, and be- 
fouled, in short, eliminated as a federal State if possible. 
This was all the more incredible, inasmuch as, into the bar- 
gain, the fight of these so-called federalists was directed 
precisely against that Prussia which least of all can be linked 
to the democracy of November. For the vilifications and 
attacks of these so-called 'federalists' were directed not 
against the fathers of the Weimar Constitution, who were 
themselves in largest part South Germans or Jews anyway, 
but against the representatives of the old conservative Prus- 
sia, that is, the antipodes of the Weimar Constitution. 
That attacks on the Jews were well warded off thereby 
should cause no surprise, but, perhaps, rather offers the key 
to the solution of the whole puzzle. 

Just as before the Revolution the Jew understood how to 
divert attention from his war societies, or rather from him- 
self, and how to turn the masses, especially the Bavarian 
nation, against Prussia, so after the Revolution he had 
somehow or other to cover up the new and tenfold greater 
campaign of robbery. And again he was able to agitate the 
then so-called 'nationalist elements' of Germany against 
each other: conservatively oriented Bavaria against equally 
conservative thinking Prussia. And again he, who alone held 
the threads of the Reich's destiny, was able to effect this in 
the slyest way, by provoking such gross and tactless clashes 
that the blood of those affected by them was constantly 
boiling up anew. Never against the Jew, of course, but al- 
ways against the fellow-German. The Bavarian visualized 
not the Berlin of four million industriously laboring, diligent. 



824 MEIN KAMPF 

productive men, but the lazy, corrupt Berlin of the most vile 
West End/ And still his hate did not turn against this West 
End, but against the 'Prussian 1 city. 
t It was really often maddening. 

This slickness of the Jews in diverting public attention 
from themselves, and involving it somewhere else, can also 
be studied again today. 

In the year 1918 there was absolutely no systematic anti- 
Semitism. I still recall the difficulties which one ran into 
the minute one used the word Jew. One met either a dumb 
stare or experienced the most violent opposition. Our first 
endeavors to show the real enemy to the public then seemed 
almost hopeless and only very slowly did things begin to 
turn for the better. As unsuccessful as the * Guard and 
Ward League' was, its service in having again broached 

Many of the better class of Berlin Jews lived in the West 
End of the city. One may doubt, however, that many Bava- 
rians took note of such residential peculiarities. They were 
far more anti-Prussian than anti-Semitic. 

Prior to 1918, anti-Semitism has been limited to a few groups. 
The Schoenerer movement had some effect on Protestant feel- 
ing; and a few intellectuals in the western provinces copied some 
remarks, from Drumont, the French anti-Semite. These in- 
fluences and others were then reflected in the Christian Social 
movement headed by Adolf Stocker, a Lutheran clergyman 
who championed anti-Semitism. In Bavaria peasants were 
sometimes accustomed to curse the 'Jews 1 which term they 
applied to produce-buyers of all races. Though antipathy 
increased there after the War, it was never as violent as it 
became in Thuringia, Saxony and Braunschweig. 

The Schutz- und Trutz-bund (Guard and Ward League) was 
an ultra-nationalist organization which had a considerable 
following after the war. One of its primary concerns was th 
organization of a defense against the threat of Bolshevism. 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 825 

the Jewish question as such was, nevertheless, great.-* In any 
event, in the winter of 1918-19 something like anti-Semi- 
tism began slowly to take roots. Later, of course, the Na- 
tional Socialist movement drove the Jewish question to the 
fore in an entirely different way. It achieved, above all, 
the raising of this problem out of the narrowly restricted 
circles of little and big bourgeois strata, and its transforma- 
tion into a compelling motive of a great nationalist move- 
ment. Hardly, however, had the great unifying idea of 
struggle on this question been given to the German people 
than the Jew also moved to counter-attack. He seized on 
his old weapon. With amazing speed he threw into the 
folkish movement the arsonous torch of bickering. As the 
situation was then, the only chance of occupying public 
attention with other problems and thus stemming the con- 
centrated assault on Jewry lay in opening up the Ultra- 
montane question, and in the mutual clash of Catholicism 
and Protestantism arising from it. Those who flung this 
question among our people sinned against it in a manner 
for which they can never make amends. The Jew, in any 
event, achieved the desired goal : Catholics and Protestants 

The 'Ultramontane question* was raised by Ludendorff. 
After Hitler's release from prison, he saw that without the 
tacit consent of the Bavarian People's Party any resumption 
of his activities in Bavaria was out of the question. Therefore 
he publicly disavowed any interest in religious warfare, though 
other Nazis might keep up a fairly steady fire on the Church 
from behind their desks in the Volkischer Beobachter offices. 
Besides Mussolini had reached a kind of 'armistice' with the 
Catholic Church (though real peace did not come until 1929) 
the dramatic value of which made itself felt even north of the 
Alps. Ludendorff, whose second wife had instilled into him a 
loathing for the Jesuits in particular, viewed this profession of 
religious neutrality even of benevolence to religion, if one 
prefers with unconcealed antipathy. North German writer*. 



826 MEIN KAMPF 

were merrily at war with one another, and the deadly enemy 
of Aryan humanity and of all Christendom laughed up hia 
sleeve. 

Just as the Jew was once able to occupy public opinion 
with the struggle between federalism and centralization, and 
thus undermine it, while he sold out the national freedom 
and betrayed our fatherland to international high finance, 
so he was again able to loose a storm between the two Ger- 
man denominations, while the foundations of both were 
eaten away and undermined by international world Jewry. 

Let the desolation which Jewish hybridization daily 
visits on our nation be clearly seen, this blood-poisoning 
that can be removed from our body national only after 
centuries or nevermore; let it be pondered, further, how 
racial decay drags down, indeed often annuls, the final 
Aryan values of our German nation, so that our force as a 
culture-bearing people is visibly more and more in retreat 
and we run the great danger of ending up, at least in our 
great cities, where southern Italy already is today. This 
infection of our blood, which hundreds of thousands of our 
people overlook as though blind, is, moreover, promoted 
systematically by the Jews today. Systematically these 
black parasites of the nations ravish our innocent young, 



Count Reventlow in particular, also took exception to Hitler's 
stand. No sooner had the Party come to power, however, 
than essays to which Ludendorff might have subscribed with 
gusto appeared on all kiosks. The preface to a brochure 
entitled Der Jesuit: der Vaterlandslose Dunkclmann, by Hubert 
Hermanns, said in part: 'This essay makes no pretense at 
being objective, since that would merely mean adding another 
to the enormously swollen tide of books and writings of that 
kind. It is offered, rather, as a clear-cut attack. . . . Potsdam, 
in the May-moon of the first year of the National Socialist 
Revolution. 9 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 827 

blonde girls and thus destroy something that can never 
again be replaced in this world. Both, yes, both Christian 
denominations regard with indifference this desecration and 
annihilation of a noble and unique race to whom the earth 
was given by the grace of God. What is important for the 
earth's future is not whether Protestants vanquish Catho- 
lics or Catholics vanquish Protestants, but whether Aryan 
humanity maintains itself or dies out. Nevertheless, today 
the two denominations do not fight against the despoiler 
of this humanity, but strive to destroy one another. Pre- 
cisely he who is folkishly oriented has the most sacred duty, 
each within his own denomination, to see to it that God's 
will is not simply talked about outwardly, but that God's will 
is also fulfilled and God's labor not ravished. Because God's 
will once gave men their form, their being, and their facul- 
ties. Who destroys His work thereby declares war on the 
creation of the Lord, the divine will. Therefore, let every- 
one be active, and best of all each in his own denomination, 
and let everyone feel it his first and most sacred duty to op- 
pose him who, in his activity by word or deed, breaks out of 
the framework of his own creed and seeks to pry his way into 
the other. For the struggle against the essential peculiari- 
ties of a denomination within our present German religious 
division leads inevitably to a war of extermination between 
both denominations. Our relations in this respect permit 
no comparison whether with France or Spain or, certainly, 
Italy. For example, in all these three countries a struggle 
against clericalism or Ultramontanism can be preached 
without running the risk that through this attempt the 
French, Spanish, or Italian nation as such will fall apart. 
But this may not be done in Germany, since here Protes- 
tants, too, of course, would join in such an initiative. 
Consequently, however, the defense, which elsewhere would 
be solely by Catholics against political encroachments of 
their own prelates, would here immediately take on the na- 



828 MEIN KAMPF 

ture of an attack by Protestantism against Catholicism. 
What would always be tolerated from adherents of the 
same denomination, even if it were unjust, immediately 
meets the sharpest rejection in advance the moment the 
opponent belongs to another creed. This goes so far that 
even men who would be ready, as far as that goes, to redress 
without more ado obvious grievances within their own re- 
ligious community, immediately quit and resist the outside 
world as soon as such a rectification is welcomed or, in any 
case, as soon as it is demanded in a quarter not belonging to 
their community. They feel it to be equally unjustified and 
inadmissible, indeed indecent, to mix in matters which are 
no concern of the said parties. Such attempts are not ex- 
cused even when based on the higher law of the interests 
of the national community, since today religious feeling 
still lies deeper than all national and political expediencies. 
And this is not in the least altered by the fact that now both 
denominations have been driven into a mutually embit- 
tered war, but can become otherwise only by a mutual 
tolerance which will endow the nation with a future so 
great that it will gradually have a conciliatory effect even 
in this field. 

I do not hesitate to declare that I see in those who to- 
day try to draw the folkish movement into the crisis of 
religious controversies worse enemies of my nation than I 
do in any internationally oriented Communist. For the 
National Socialist movement is called on to convert the 
latter. But whoever, from within its own ranks, takes the 
National Socialist movement away from its proper mission 
acts most reprehensibly. Whether he be aware of it or not 
is beside the point, he is a crusader for Jewish interests. 
For the Jewish interest today is to let the actual folkish 
movement bleed to death in a religious war, in the moment 
it begins to represent a danger to the Jews. And I expressly 
emphasize the words, let it bleed to death; because only a 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 829 

person totally uncultivated historically can today imagine 
solving, through this movement, a question on which cen- 
turies and great statesmen have been dashed to pieces. 

For the rest, the facts speak for themselves. The gentle- 
men who suddenly discovered in the year 1924 that the 
supreme mission of the folkish movement is the fight against 
1 Ultramontanism 1 have not crushed Ultramontanism, but 
they have torn open the folkish movement. I must also 
protest against any immature head in the ranks of the 
folkish movement imagining that he can do what not even 
a Bismarck was able to do. It will always be the supreme 
duty of the leadership of the National Socialist movement 
to offer the keenest opposition to any attempt to put the 
National Socialist movement at the disposal of such fights, 
and instantly to drive the propagators of such a scheme 
from the ranks of the movement. And, in fact, down to the 
autumn of 1923 this was thoroughly done. The most be- 
lieving Protestant could stand in the ranks of our movement 
next to the most believing Catholic, without ever having to 
come into the slightest conflict of conscience with his re- 
ligious convictions. The great common struggle which both 
carried on against the destroyers of Aryan humanity had, 
on the contrary, taught them mutual respect and esteem. 
And this notwithstanding the fact that, in those very years, 
the movement fought most bitterly against the Center, not, 
of course, on religious, but exclusively on questions of na- 
tional, racial, and economic policy. Success proved us 
right then, just as today it proves the know-it-alls wrong. 

In recent years things have sometimes gone so far that 
folkish circles, in the God-forsaken blindness of their de- 

Ludendorff never swallowed the bitter pill which was here 
dispatched to him. All attempts to reconcile him to the new 
State failed, and he professed to see in it 'Italian theater' 
instead of the 'German earnestness* he wanted. 



830 MEIN KAMPF 

nominational discussions, could not see the insanity of their 
doings at all; that atheistic Marxist newspapers suddenly 
became advocates of religious communities, indicting one 
or the other according to requirement, by peddling some 
utterly stupid remarks and thereby adding the utmost fuel 
to the fire. 

But all such battle cries are a deadly danger precisely in 
such a nation as the German, which has so often in its his- 
tory proved that it is capable of fighting for the sake of 
phantoms until bled white. Our nation is thereby con- 
stantly diverted from the real questions of its existence. 
While we devour each other in religious wrangles, the rest 
of the world is shared. And while the folkish movement is 
considering whether the Ultramontane danger is greater 
than the Jewish, or vice versa, the Jew destroys the racial 
bases of our existence and thus eternally ruins our nation. 
As far as this kind of folkish warrior is concerned, I can 
from a most candid heart only wish the National Socialist 
movement, and with it the German nation : Lord, keep them 
from such friends and they will then vanquish their enemies. 



The fight so slyly propagated by the Jews between 
federalism and centralization in the years 1919-20-21 and 
thereafter, despite our complete rejection of it, nevertheless 
forced the National Socialist movement to adopt a position 
towards its essential issues. 

f Should Germany be a federated State or a unified State, 
and what does each mean practically? 

The second question seems to me to be the more im- 
portant, because it is not only fundamental to an under- 
standing of the whole problem, but also because it haa 
a clarifying and conciliating character. 

What is a federated State? 

By a federated State we mean a union of sovereign States 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 831 

which voluntarily, by virtue of their sovereignty, unite 
with each other and thereby transfer to the totality those 
parts of the particular rights of sovereignty which make 
possible and guarantee the existence of the joint federation. 

This theoretical formulation does not, in practice, fit 
any of the existing federated States in the world today. 
Least of all the American Union, where far and away the 
majority of the individual States had absolutely no original 
sovereignty whatsoever, but many of which were, in the 
course of time, so to speak, sketched into the total area of 
the Union. Thus, too, the individual States of the American 
Union are in most cases small or large territories worked 
out for reasons of administrative technicalities, often 
delimited with a ruler, which previously had no State 
sovereignty of their own and could not have had any at all.^ 
For it was not these States which formed the Union, but 
it was the Union which gave form to a great part of these 
so-called States. The very extensive rights left to or, rather, 
assigned to the individual territories, moreover, conform 
not only to the whole system of this union of States, but, 
above all, also to the magnitude of its area, spatial dimen- 
sions which, indeed, approximate the scope of a continent. 
One can, therefore, not speak of State sovereignty in the 
case of the States of the American Union, but only of their 
constitutionally established and guaranteed rights, which, 
perhaps, would be better called privileges. 

Nor is the above formula altogether applicable to Ger- 
many. Although in Germany the individual States un- 
questionably existed first and as States, and the Reich was 
constructed out of them. But the very construction of the 
Reich did not take place on the basis of the free will or 
identical actions of the individual States, but as the effect ' 
of the hegemony of one State among them, Prussia. In 
itself, the purely territorially great difference among the 
German States permits no comparison with the form, tor 



32 MEJN KAMPF 

example, of the American Union. The difference in size 
between the one-time smallest German federal State and 
the larger, not to speak of the largest, reflects the hetero- 
geneity of the services rendered as well as the inequality 
of the share in the founding of the Reich, in the formation 
of the federated State. In fact, however, in the case of 
most of these States, there could be no real sovereignty 
unless the words State sovereignty were to have no meaning 
except that of an official phrase. In reality, not only the 
past, but also the present, made a clean sweep of many of 
these so-called 'sovereign States' and thus most clearly 
proved the feebleness of these ' sovereign ' structures, 

I am not going to determine here in detail how these 
States were historically formed, beyond saying that in 
almost no case are they coterminus with clan boundaries. 
They are purely political phenomena, rooted largely in 
the most woeful period of the German Reich's impotence 
and our German fatherland's dismemberment which con- 
ditioned them and, conversely, by which they were them- 
selves conditioned. 

The constitution of the old Reich took at least partial 
account of all this, in so far as it did not concede the 
individual States the same representation in the federal 
council, but set up gradations corresponding to the in- 
dividual States' size and real importance, as well an to 
their performance in the construction of the Reich. 

The sovereign rights waived by the individual States to 
make possible the construction of the Reich were only in 
the smallest part voluntarily surrendered, besides in largest 
part they were practically either non-existent or they were 
simply taken away under the pressure of the superior power 
of Prussia. Of course, Bismarck did not work on the 
principle of giving the Reich whatever could be taken from 
the individual States, but of demanding from the individual 
States only what the Reich absolutely needed. A principle 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 333 

as moderate as wise, which, on the one hand, took the fullest 
account of custom and tradition, and, on the other, assured 
the new Reich in advance of a great amount of affection 
and willing co-operation. But it is fundamentally wrong 
to attribute this decision of Bismarck's to some conviction 
of his that now the Reich had enough sovereignty rights 
for all time. This conviction was in no way Bismarck's; 
on the contrary, he wanted only to leave to the future what 
at the moment would have been difficult to accomplish 
and to endure. He put his hope in the slow equalizing 
effect of time and in the pressure of events themselves, to 
which he attributed more strength in the long run than 
to an effort to break immediately the passing resistance of 
the individual States. Thereby he demonstrated and best 
proved the greatness of his statesmanship. For, in reality, 
the sovereignty of the Reich constantly increased at the 
expense of the sovereignty of the individual States. Time 
fulfilled the hopes Bismarck put in it. 

With the German collapse and the destruction of the 
monarchical State form, this tendency was inevitably ac- 
celerated. For, since the individual German States owed 
their existence less to clan bases than to pure political 
causes, the importance of these individual States neces- 
sarily declined at that moment to nullity, since the essential 
embodiment of the political development of these States, 
the monarchical State form and its dynasties, was eliminated. 
A whole series of these 'State structures' thus lost all in- 
ternal stability to such an extent that they voluntarily 
renounced further existence and, on grounds of pure ex- 
pediency, fused with others or voluntarily merged into 
larger States; the most striking proof of the remarkable 
weakness of real sovereignty in these little structures and 
of the limited esteem which they enjoyed even among their 
own citizens. 

If, then, the elimination of the monarchical State form 



834 MEIN KAMPF 

and its bearers in itself administered a rude blow to the 
Reich's federated character, that was still more true of the 
acceptance of the obligations flowing from the 'peace' 
treaty. 

That financial sovereignty, which had previously inhered 
in the provinces, was lost to the Reich was natural and 
a matter of course, at the very moment when the Reich waa 
subjected by the loss of the War to a financial obligation 
which could never have been met by individual contribu- 
tions from the provinces. The further steps leading to the 
taking-over of the postal and railway services by the Reich 
were also inevitable consequences of the enslavement of 
our people begun gradually by the peace treaties. The 
Reich was compelled to take exclusive possession of ever- 
new capital in order to satisfy the obligations laid down 
as a result of further extortions. 

Insane as the forms often were under which the centraliza- 
tion took place, the development in itself was quite logical 
and natural. The guilt for it rests on those parties and 
individuals who previously had not done everything to 
terminate the War victoriously. The guilty were, especially 
in Bavaria, the parties which during the War veered away 
from the Reich idea in pursuit of egotistical goals of their 
own, only to have to restore ten times as much after the 
defeat. Avenging history! But rarely did the punishment 
of Heaven follow sin so rapidly as it did in this case. The 
same parties which, but a few years earlier, put the interests 
of their individual States and particularly Bavaria 
above the interests of the Reich, now were compelled to 
experience how, under the pressure of events, the interest 
of the Reich throttled the existence of the individual States. 
Entirely through their own complicity. 

To complain to the voting masses (for the agitation of 
our contemporary parties is directed only towards them) 
about the loss of die individual States' sovereign rights, 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 835 

while all these parties without exception overbid each other 
in a policy of fulfillment whose final consequences naturally 
had to lead also to profound alterations in internal Ger- 
many, is matchless hypocrisy. The Bismarckian Reich was 
externally free and unrestricted. It had no financial obliga- 
tions of such a burdensome, and at the same time entirely 
unproductive, kind as contemporary Dawes-Germany must 
bear. But internally, too, it was limited to a few and abso- 
lutely necessary concerns. Hence it cofcld dispense with 
any financial sovereignty of its own, and live off the con- 
tributions of the provinces; and it is natural that, on the 
one hand, the guarding of the possession of their own rights 
of sovereignty and, on the other hand, the relatively slight 
Reich financial imposition, very much fostered provincial 
satisfaction with the Reich. But it is erroneous, indeed 
deceitful, to try to make propaganda today with the conten- 
tion that the reigning dissatisfaction with the Reich might 
be attributable simply to the financial bondage of the 
provinces to the Reich. No, that is not really the situation. 
The decreased satisfaction with the Reich idea is not attributable 
to the loss of sovereignty rights by the proinnces, but is much 
more the result of the miserable representation that the German 
nation actually experiences through its State. Despite all the 
Reich Flag Days and constitution celebrations, the present 
Reich has remained alien to the hearts of the people of all 
strata, and republican protective laws may be able to 
frighten people from violating republican institutions, but 
can never win for themselves the love even of a solitary 
German. In the immense trouble of protecting the Republic 
against its own citizens by paragraph [in the constitution] and 
prison lies the most destructive criticism and disparagement 
of the whole institution itself. 

But for another reason, too, the contention made today 
by certain parties that the disappearance of satisfaction 
with the Reich is attributable to the encroachment of the 



*36 MEIN KAMPF 

Reich on certain provincial sovereignty rights, is false. 
Assuming that the Reich had not undertaken the expansion 
of its jurisdiction, it still should not be thought that then 
the love of the individual provinces for the Reich would be 
greater if the total of their Reich taxes were nevertheless 
what it is now. On the contrary: had the individual prov- 
inces today to put up with taxes such as the Reich would 
need for the fulfillment of the enslavement edict, hostility 
towards the Reich would only have been much greater. 
These taxes would not only be very difficult to raise, 
but would have to be collected by means of downright 
administrative coercion. For, since the Republic now rests 
on the ground of the peace treaties, and possesses neither 
the courage nor any sort of intention of breaking them, it 
must meet its obligations. Those guilty for this are, however, 
once again only the parties which incessantly lecture to the 
voting masses about the necessary independence oj the prov- 
inces, while at the same time demanding and supporting 
a Reich policy which quite inevitably must lead to the elimina- 
tion of the very last of these so-called 'sovereignty rights' 

I say inevitably because the present Reich has no alterna- 
tive for meeting the burdens imposed on it by an infamous 
domestic and foreign policy. Here, too, one wedge drives in 
another, and every new debt which the Reich assumes be- 
cause of the criminal representation of German interests 
abroad must be balanced domestically by a heavier pressure 
downwards, which, on its part, again requires the gradual 
elimination of all the individual States' sovereignty rights, 
in order that germ cells of resistance may not be permitted 
to persist or arise in them. 

t What is more, there must be established as a character- 
istic general difference between present and previous Reich 
policy : the old Reich gave internal freedom and showed strength 
abroad, while the Republic shows weakness abroad and 
oppresses the citizens internally. In both cases the one condi- 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 837 

tions the other: the powerful national State needs fewer 
internal laws because of the greater affection and attachment oj 
its citizens; the internal slave State can hold its subjects to 
their compulsory service only by force. For to speak of 'free 
citizens' is one of the present rfegime's boldest imperti- 
nences. Only the old Germany had such. The Republic, as 
the slave colony of foreign countries, has no citizens, but at 
best subjects. Consequently, it also has no national flag, 
but only a registered trade-mark, introduced and protected 
by official decrees and legal prescriptions. Because this 
symbol is perceived as the Gessler hat of German democ- 
racy, it will always remain essentially alien to our people. 
The Republic, which, on its part, without any feeling for 
tradition and without any respect for the greatness of the 
past, trampled their symbols in the mire, will some day be 
amazed to see how superficially its subjects support its own 
symbols. The Republic gave itself the character of an 
intermezzo in German history.-* 

Hence this State is today compelled, for the sake of its 
own existence, to amputate increasingly the sovereignty 
rights of the individual provinces, not simply from a general 
material, but also from ideal viewpoints. For, while squeez- 



The problem of the relationship between the Reich and the 
several States was one of the utmost importance, to which 
statesmen and jurists had given a great deal of thought. It 
was the Papen government which first sought to alter by force 
the modus vivendi agreed upon 'the signers of the Weimar Con- 
stitution. Prussia was subordinated to the Reich, and the 
Papen plan envisaged the ultimate disappearance of all State 
boundaries. Under Hitler, however, the problem has been 
'solved* in another way. Just as the Osaf has under his com- 
mand a number of Brigaden, so Hitler, as Ftihrcr of the German 
people (a title conferred on him after Hindenburg's death on 
August 2, 1934)1 has delegated authority to the StaUhatier of 



838 MEIN KAMPF 

ing the last drop of blood out of its citizens by its policy 
of financial extortion, it must inevitably also deprive them 
of their last rights if it does not want the universal dissatis- 
faction some day to burst into open rebellion. 

By inverting the above proposition, we derive the follow- 
ing fundamental rule for National Socialists: a powerful 
national Reich which enforces and protects its citizens' 
interests abroad on the widest scale will be able to offer 
internal freedom without worrying about the State's 
stability. On the other hand, a powerful national government 
will be able even to make and answer for great encroachments 
on the rights both of individuals and of provinces without 
damage to the Reich idea, provided that the individual citizen 
recognizes in such measures a means towards the greatness oj 
his nationality. 

Certainly all States of the world are approaching a certain 
unification in their internal organization. Nor will Germany 
be an exception to this. Today it is really nonsense to talk 
about the ' State sovereignty' of individual provinces 
which, in reality, is not in accord with the ridiculous size 
of these structures. The importance of the individual States 
will be ever more subordinated in both the technical 

each State, who is allowed considerable latitude in those 
matters which have not been reserved to the powerful central 
offices in Berlin. Just how far the Statthalter* s authority goes 
is not clear. It seems to depend largely upon how much per- 
sonal influence he can exert in given instances. 

Hitler himself has never felt at home in Prussia. He seems 
not to fit into the practical, matter-of-fact life that is character- 
istic of North Germany, and to long instead for the more 
impulsive manners of the South. Since the Machtergreifung, 
he has not remained in Berlin longer than necessity required. 
Few of the lieutenants have fared much better. Resistance 
to Nazi ideas is also much stronger in the North than in the 
South. 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 839 

domains of transportation and administration. - Modern 
transportation, modern technology, increasingly shrink 
distance and space. What was once a State constitutes to- 
day but a province, and the present States were equivalent 
to former continents. The difficulty, by purely technical 
standards, of administering such a State as Germany is not 
greater than the difficulty of controlling a province such as 
Brandenburg a hundred and twenty years ago. It is today 
easier to bridge the distance between Munich and Berlin 
than was that between Munich and Starnberg a century 
ago. And the whole present Reich territory is smaller in 
relation to actual transportation technique than was that 
of one of the medium-sized German federated States in the 
epoch of the Napoleonic Wars. Whoever reaches conclu- 
sions based on formerly valid facts is behind the times. 
People who do this have existed in all periods and will 
always be found in the future, too. They will, nevertheless, 
hardly contrive to impede the wheel of history, and never 
to bring it to a stop. 

We National Socialists must not blindly overlook the 
consequences of these truths. Here, too, we must not allow 
ourselves to be ensnared by the phrases of our so-called 
nationalist bourgeois parties. I say phrases because these 
parties themselves do not at all sincerely believe in a chance 
of carrying out their schemes, and because, secondly, they 
are themselves accomplices of and primarily guilty for the 
present development. Especially in Bavaria, the cry for 
decentralization is really nothing more than partisan 
trickery without any serious thought behind it. At every 
moment when these parties should have done something 
really serious about their phrases, they failed miserably 
without exception. Every so-called 'theft of sovereignty 
rights' of the Bavarian State by the Reich was accepted 
practically without resistance, except for disgusting yelps. 
Indeed, when one of their people really dared oppose this mad 



840 MEIN KAMPF 

system seriously, he was outlawed and damned and hounded 
as 'not standing on the ground of the existing State,' until he 
had been gagged either by imprisonment or by an illegal 
prohibition of speech. Our supporters must best of all 
recognize the essential mendacity of these so-called federal- 
ist circles precisely from this fact. Just like, in part, 
religion, so is the federative State idea for them but a means 
in the service of their often filthy party interests. 



Natural as a certain unification, especially in the domain 
of transport, appears to be, we National Socialists have an 
obligation to take the sharpest position against such a develop- 
ment in the present State, that is, when the measures have only 
the objective of covering and making possible a fatal foreign 
policy. Precisely because the present Reich has undertaken 
the so-called nationalization of railways, postal service, 
finances, etc., not from the higher viewpoint of national 
policy, but only in order thereby to get hold of the means 
and securities for a boundless policy of fulfillment, we 
National Socialists must do everything which seems some- 
how calculated to impede and if possible prevent such 
a policy. And this includes the struggle against the present 
centralizing of institutions important to national life, which 
is undertaken only in order to make liquid for purposes of 
our post- War foreign policy sums of millions and items for 
hypothecation. 

The National Socialist movement also has taken a posi- 
tion against such attempts on these grounds. 

The second reason which can justify us in offering opposi- 
tion to that sort of centralization is the fact that the 
domestic power of a governmental system, which in its 
total effects has brought the worse misfortune to the German 
nation, might be reinforced thereby. The present Jewish- 
democratic Reich, which has become a real curse to the German 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 841 

nation, is trying to render ineffective the criticism of the in- 
dividual States, not all of which have yet been permeated by this 
spirit, by reducing them to complete insignificance. In the face 
of this, we National Socialists have every justification for 
trying not only to give the opposition of these individual 
States the foundation for a State power which promises 
success, but to turn their fight against centralization in 
general into an expression of a higher, universal German 
interest. While, then, the Bavarian People's Party is im- 
pelled to support special rights for the Bavarian State because 
of narrow-minded particularist motives, we must apply this 
special position to the service of a higher national interest 
opposed to the present November democracy. 
f The third reason which further motivates us to fight 
against this sort of centralization is the conviction that a 
large part of the so-called nationalization is in reality not 
nationalization, and certainly not simplification, but that 
in many cases it is solely a matter of taking away provincial 
sovereignty rights from institutions in order then to open 
their doors to the interests of the parties of the Revolution. 
Never in German history was there carried on such shame- 
less economic favoritism as in the democratic Republic. 
A great portion of the present centralizing passion must be 
credited to those parties which once promised to clear the road 
for the efficient, but who considered only party membership in 
filling offices and jobs. An incredible multitude of Jews 
particularly have, since the founding of the Republic, 
flooded the economic enterprises and administrative ap- 
paratuses grabbed by the Reich, so that today both these 
have become a domain of Jewish activity. 

This third consideration, above all, must for tactical 
reasons obligate us to examine most carefully all further 
measures on the road of centralization and, when necessary, 
to oppose them.-** But our motives must always be higher 
motives of national policy and never narrow particularism. 



842 MEIN KAMPF 

This last remark is necessary in order that the view may 
not arise among our supporters that we National Socialists 
would not give the Reich in itself the right to embody 
a higher sovereignty than the individual States. There 
should and can be no doubt among us as to this right. Since 
the Slate in itself is for us only a form, while what is essential 
is its content, the nation, the people, it is clear that everything 
else must subordinate itself to its sovereign interests. We 
particularly cannot permit any individual State within the 
nation and the Reich, which represents it, sovereign power and 
independent State rank. The nuisance of individual federated 
States maintaining so-called missions abroad and among 
each other must and some day will cease. As long as that 
sort of thing can go on, we should not wonder that foreign 
countries still doubt the stability of our Reich structure and 
behave accordingly. The nuisance of these missions is all 
the greater since there cannot be ascribed to them the 
slightest utility to counterbalance their harmfulness. Any 
German's interests abroad which cannot be protected by 
the Reich ambassador can still much less be defended 
by the ambassador of one of the little States which look so 
ridiculous in the frame of the present world order. In these 
little federated States may really be seen only points of 
attack for the dissolution tendencies within and outside the 
German Reich, which are still looked upon favorably 
particularly by one State. For this reason, too, we National 
Socialists can show no appreciation of the fact that some 
patrician family grown feeble with senility should be pro- 
viding new soil for nourishment to a generally very barren 
sprig by clothing him with an ambassadorial post. Even in 
the time of the old Reich our diplomatic missions abroad 
were so pitiful that further supplementation of the ex- 
periences then gained would be quite superfluous. 

The importance of the individual provinces will certainly 
be shifted in the future more to the domain of cultural 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 843 

policy. The monarch who did most for the importance of 
Bavaria was not some stubborn, anti-German oriented 
particularism but rather Ludwig I, who was as Pan- 
German as he was sensitive to the arts. By applying State 
forces primarily to the building of Bavaria's cultural posi- 
tion and not to strengthening her political power, he built 
better and more enduringly than he could have in any other 
way. By pushing Munich out of the framework of a 
provincial capital of slight importance into the character 
of a great German artistic metropolis, he created a spiritual 
nexus which even today can bind the essentially different 
Franks to this city. Had Munich remained what it once 
was, then what happened in Saxony would have been 
repeated in Bavaria, with the difference that the Leipzig of 
Bavaria, Niirnberg, would have become not a Bavarian 
but a Prankish city. Munich was not made great by those 
who shouted ' down with Prussia/ but importance was given 
this city by that king who wanted, in her, to give the Ger- 
man nation an artistic gem which would have to be, and 
which was, respected and esteemed. And this holds a lesson 
for the future, too. The importance of the individual States 
will, in the future, lie altogether outside the field of State power 
and politics; I see it either in the field of tribal affairs or 
cultural policy. But even here time will have a leveling 
effect. The ease of modern transportation so intermingles 
people that slowly and steadily tribal boundaries are wiped 
out and thus even the cultural picture gradually begins to 
become uniform. 

The army must be especially sharply separated from all 
influence of the individual States. The coming National 
Socialist State should not fall into the error of the past and 
assign to the army a task which it does not and should not 
have. The German army is not there to be a school for the 
maintenance of tribal peculiarities, but rather a school for 
the mutual understanding and adjustment of all Germans. 



844 MEIN KAMPF 

Whatever may have a divisive effect in national life should 
be given a unifying effect through the army. It should 
furthermore raise the individual youth above the narrow 
horizon of his little countryside and place him in the Ger- 
man nation. He must learn to respect, not the boundaries of 
his birthplace, but the boundaries of his fatherland ; for it is 
these which he, too, must some day defend. Therefore, it is 
senseless to leave the young German in his birthplace, but 
appropriate to show him Germany during his time in the 
army. This is all the more necessary today, since the young 
German no longer has as previously his wander-years with 
their broadening effect on his horizon. Recognizing this, is 
it not nonsensical to keep the young Bavarian as much as 
possible in Munich, the Frank in Niirnberg, the Badener in 
Karlsruhe, the Wiirttemberger in Stuttgart, etc., and is it 
not more intelligent to show the young Bavarian the Rhine 
and the North Sea by turn, the Hamburger the Alps, the 
East Prussian the central German mountains, and so on? 
Regional character should reside in the troop formation, not 
in the garrison. Every attempt at centralization may meet 
with our disapproval, but never that of the army. On the 

The idea that every German ought to see the whole of his 
country is old, and was propagated zealously by Wandervogel 
and other youth groups which fostered hiking to points of 
historic or scenic interest. Today, however, all Germany 
seems to wander to and fro. Military and labor units are 
shifted about considerably; numerous Party conventions and 
festivals bring caravans of young and old to selected points. 
The occupation of Vienna meant free transportation to that 
city for many thousands of school-children, who marched 
and sang in honor of the occasion. Popular recreational organ- 
izations such as Kraft durch Freude (Strength through Joy) send 
large crowds to selected resorts. In addition the difficulties 
involved in getting foreign exchange compel the German 
burgher to spend most of his leisure time inside the fatherland. 



FEDERALISM AS A MASK 845 

contrary, even if we welcomed no such attempts, we would 
have to be gratified by this one. Entirely apart from the 
fact that it would be absurd to maintain individual State 
troop formations in view of the size of the present Reich 
army, we see in the achievement of a unification of the 
Reich army a step which we, too, must never give up on 
the reintroduction of a national army in the future, 
f For the rest, a young, triumphant idea must reject all 
chains that might cripple its activity in the promotion of its 
conception. National Socialism must, in principle, claim 
the right to force its principles on the whole German nation 
and to educate it in its ideas and thoughts without regard to 
previous boundaries of federated States. Just as the churches 
do not feel themselves bound or limited by political frontiers, 
equally little the National Socialist idea by the individual 
State regions of our fatherland.*** 

The National Socialist theory is not the servant of the 
political interests of individual federated States, but shall some 
day be the mistress of the German nation. It must determine 
and reorder the life of a nation, and therefore must imperiously 
demand for itself the right to overlook boundaries drawn by 
a tendency which we have rejected. 

f The more complete the triumph of its ideas shall bt, the 
greater can then be the freedom of the individual which if 
basically offers.** 



CHAPTER XI 

PROPAGANDA AND 
ORGANIZATION 



t'lFHE year 1921 had assumed special significance for 
I me and for the movement in an additional direction. 
" After my joining the German Workers' Party, 
I immediately took over the management of the propa- 
ganda. I considered this section by far the most important. 
For the first it r/as less important to rack one's brain about 
questions of organization than to impart the idea itself 
to a greater number of people.^ Propaganda had to precede 
far in advance of the organization and to win for the 
latter the human material to be utilized. I, too, am an 
enemy of too rapid and too pedantic organizing. The 
result, in most cases, is only a dead organism, very rarely 
a living organization. For organization is something that 
owes its existence to organic life, to organic evolution. 
Ideas which have seized a certain number of people will 
always strive for a certain order, and very great value is 
attributable to its essential construction. But here, too, 
one has to count with man's weakness which impels the 
individual to oppose, at least at the beginning, a superior 
mind* As soon as an organization is mechanically staged 
from above, the great danger exists that a personality, once 
it has been appointed although it is not correctly recog- 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 847 

nized and is perhaps of minor capability will try, out of 
jealousy, to prevent the rise of more efficient elements 
within the movement. The damage arising in such a case 
can be of catastrophic significance, especially for a young 
movement. 

For this reason it is more expedient first to spread an 
idea by propaganda from a center and then to examine 
and to search for the leading heads in the human material 
which is gradually being assembled. Thereby it will some- 
times be apparent that insignificant people have neverthe- 
less to be looked upon as born leaders. 

But it would be quite wrong to see characteristic proofs 
of qualities of, and efficiency in leadership in, a wealth of 
theoretical knowledge. 

The contrary is frequently the case. 

Great theorists are only in the rarest cases great organizers, 

If the success of the Nazi Party is any criterion, this remark 
is true. Three brilliant intellects have had a share in the work 
which paved the way for Machtergreifung: Goebbels, Gregor 
Strasser, Joachim von Ribbentrop. The first brought a 
trained, unscrupulous, and analytical mind to the task of 
undermining the resistance of the middle classes to concepts of 
political action that did not consort with previously held ideals 
of conduct or belief; the second was an earnest, slow-moving, 
powerful Jacobin, whose theories of the Germany that was to 
be were Utopian but not devoid of a certain real grandeur; 
and the third has revealed a brilliant flair for political combina- 
tions, and a diplomatic intelligence not wholly unworthy of 
comparison with that of Bismarck himself. The other leaders 
are, taken by and large, either soldiers or interesting radicals. 
Rosenberg's is a thoroughly Nazi mind, important by reason 
of the power thrust upon it, but still not impressive for that or 
any other reason. He has undermined many a bulwark of the 
German character as history knows that character, but he 
erected nothing to take the place of those bulwarks. Goering, 



848 MEIN KAMPF 

as the greatness of the theorist and the program-maker lies 
primarily in the recognition and in the establishment of 
abstractly correct laws, while the organizer has to be 
primarily a psychologist. He has to take man as he is, and 
for this reason he must know him. He must not over- 
valuate him just as he must not underestimate him in the 
mass. On the contrary, he must try to take account of the 
weakness and of the bestiality equally, so that, all factors 
considered, he will create a formation which as a living 
organism is filled with the strongest and most constant 
force, and is thus suitable for carrying an idea and paving 
its way to success. 

But still more rarely is a great theorist a great leader. 
More usually this will be the agitator, something that 
many people, who consider a question from the purely 
scientific viewpoint, do not like to hear; yet this is under- 
standable. An agitator who shows the ability of imparting 
an idea to the great masses must be a psychologist, even 
though he were only a demagogue. In that case he will 
still be better suited to be a leader than the theorist who is 
an alien to the people and to the world. For to lead means: 
to be able to move masses. The talent of shaping ideas has 
nothing whatsoever to do with the qualities of a leader. In 
this it is quite useless to argue which is of greater importance 
to establish ideals and aims of mankind or to realize them. 
Here happens what so many times happens in life: the 

Himmler, and Buch the three strong men of the Party 
are distinguished primarily for the qualities needed by superior 
police officers. More interesting are men like Dr. Otto Dietrich 
and Max Amann, who exemplify normal German business and 
managerial ability. The 'Jacobins' notably Streicher, 
Otto Kube, Hans Kerrl, Hermann Esser are absorbing: be- 
cause of the prominence to which abnormal times have elevated 
them. 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 849 

one would be completely senseless without the other. The 
most sublime theoretical insight has no value and no pur- 
pose unless the leader moves the masses towards it. And. 
inversely, what would be the meaning of all leader genius 
and of all leader impetus unless the brainy theorist were 
to establish the goals for the human struggle? However, 
the combination of theorist, organizer, and leader in one 
person is the rarest thing to be found on this globe; this 
combination makes the great man. 

During the first period of my activity in the movement, 
as already mentioned, I occupied myself with propaganda. 
The latter had to succeed in gradually instilling a small 
nucleus of people with the new doctrine, in order to form 
thus the material which would later furnish the first ele- 
ments of an organization. Hereby the aim of propaganda 
lay far beyond that of the organization, 
f If a movement has the intention of pulling down a 
world and of building a new one in its place, then there 
must be absolute clarity about the following points in the 
ranks of its own leaders: Every movement, at first, will have 
to divide the human material it has won into two great groups: 
into followers and members. 

The task of propaganda is to attract followers; the task of 
organization to win members. 

A follower of a movement is one who declares himself in 
agreement with its aims; a member is one who fights for it. 

The follower is inclined to like a movement by its propa- 
ganda. The member is induced by the organization to help 
personally towards acquiring new followers who then, in turn, 
can be trained to become members. 

As follower ship demands only a passive appreciation of 
an idea, while membership demands an active presentation and 
defense, there will be ten followers for every one or two members 
almost. 

The follower ship is rooted only in recognition membership, 



850 MEIN KAMPF 

in the courage to present personally, and to spread further 
what has been recognized. 

Recognition in its passive form corresponds to the majority 
of humankind, which is inert and cowardly. Membership 
requires an effective mind and thus corresponds only to the 
minority of men. 

Therefore propaganda will have to see to it that untiringly 
an idea wins followers, while the organization has to watch 
most sharply that from the followers only the most valuable 
ones are made members. Propaganda, therefore, needs not to 
rack its brain about the importance of each individual it en- 
lightens, about his ability, achievements, and understanding or 
of his character, while the organization has most carefully to 
collect from the masses of these elements those who really 
make possible the victory of the movement. 



Propaganda tries to force a doctrine upon an entire people; 
organization embraces in its frame only those who for psycho- 
logical reasons do not threaten to become a brake to a further 
spreading of the idea. 



Propaganda works on the community in the sense of an 
idea and it makes it ripe for the time of the victory of this 
idea, while the organization conquers victory by the permanent, 
organic, and fighting union of those followers who appear able 
and willing to lead the fight for victory. 



The victory of an idea will be the more possible the more 
extensively propaganda works on people in their entirety, and 
the more exclusive, the stricter, and stiff er the organization is 
which carries out the fight in practice. 

From this ensues the fact that the number of followers can- 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 851 

not be too great, whereas the number of members can more 
easily be too large than too small. 



When propaganda has filled a whole people with an idea, 
the organization, with the help of a handful of people, can draw 
the consequences. Propaganda and organization that means 
followers and members have thus a definite mutual relation- 
ship. The better propaganda has been working, the smaller 
may be the organization, and the greater the number of followers 
is, the more modest can be the number of members, and vice 
versa: the worse propaganda is, the greater must and will be 
the organization, and the smaller the host of followers of a 
movement remains, the greater must be the number of members, 
if it still wishes to count on success at att. 



The first task of propaganda is the winning of people for 
the future organization; the first task of the organization is 
the winning of people for the continuation of propaganda. 
The second task of propaganda is the destruction of the existing 
condition and tlie permeation of this condition with the new 
doctrine, while the second task of the organization must be 
the fight for power, so that by it it will achieve the final success 
of the doctrine. 



Actual membership in the Party is still reserved for an 
4 61ite/ enumeration among whom usually follows probation. 
It is estimated that at the close of 1938 about 3,500,000 were 
party members. A distinction still exists between the ordinary 
4 Pg ' and the Alter Kaempfer (' Old Fighters ') Membership in 
the Hitler Youth, which by decree became a State agency on 
December 1 , 1936, is now a required initiation into * the spirit of 
National Socialism.' 



852 MEIN KAMPF 

The most striking success of the revolution of a view of life 
will always be won whenever the new view of life is, if possible, 
taught to all people, and, if necessary, is later forced upon them, 
while the organization of the idea, that means the movement, 
has to embrace only so many people as absolutely necessary for 
the occupation of the nerve centers of the State involved. 

That means, in other words: 

In every really great revolutionary movement propa- 
ganda will first have to spread the idea of this movement. 
That means, it will untiringly try to make clear to the 
others the new train of thought, to draw them over to its 
own ground, or at least to make them doubtful of their own 
previous conviction. Since the propagation of a doctrine 
that means this propaganda has to have a backbone, the 
doctrine will have to give itself a solid organization. The 
organization receives its members from the followers in 
general won by propaganda. The latter will grow the more 
quickly, the more intensively propaganda is carried out, 
and the latter in turn is able to work the better, the stronger 
and the more vigorous the organization is that stands 
behind it.^ 

The highest task of organization, therefore, is to sec to 
it that no kind of internal disagreements among the mem- 
bers of the movement lead to a cleavage and with it to a 
weakening of the work in the movement; further, that the 
spirit of determined aggression does not die out, but that it 
continuously renews and fortifies itself. The number of 
members need not grow infinitely, on the contrary; since 
only a fraction of mankind is energetic and bold, a move- 
ment which enlarges its organization ad infinitum would 
necessarily some day be weakened by this procedure. Or- 
ganizations that means numbers of members which grow 
beyond a certain limit gradually lose their fighting force 
and are no longer able to support, or rather to benefit from, the 
propaganda of an idea by determination and attack. 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 853 

f The greater and the more revolutionary, essentially, an idea 
is, the more active will its members become, since for its 
supporters the revolutionary force of the doctrine involves a 
danger; which appears suitable for keeping off small and 
cowardly petty bourgeois. They will quietly consider them- 
selves followers, but they will decline to manifest this pub- 
licly by membership. Through this, however, the organization 
of a truly revolutionary idea receives as members only the 
most active followers, won by propaganda. In this very 
activity of the membership of a movement guaranteed 
by natural selection lies the presumption for an equally 
active further propagation of the movement, as well as for 
the successful fight for the realization of the idea. 

The greatest danger which can threaten a movement is a 
membership that has abnormally increased by too rapid 
successes. For, as much as a movement as long as it has 
to fight hard is avoided by all cowardly and egoistic 
people, as rapidly will the latter usually acquire member- 
ship if in its development a great success of the party has 
become probable or is already a fact. 

To this it must be ascribed that, owing to an inexplicable 
inner weakness, many victorious movements suddenly fall 
back before success has been attained or rather, before the 
final completion of their intention, that they cease fighting 
and finally die off. In consequence of their first victory, so 
many bad, unworthy, but especially cowardly elements 
have come into the organization that these inferior ones 
finally outweigh those who are capable of fighting and they 
now force the movement into the service of their own inter- 
ests, press it down to the level of their own scanty heroism, 
and do nothing towards completing the victory of the 
original idea. With this the fanatical goal has been blurred, 
the fighting strength has been paralyzed, or, as the bourgeois 
world usually says quite correctly in such a case: 'The wine 
has been mixed with water.' And then, indeed, the trees can 



854 MEIN KAMPF 

no longer grow up to the heavens [the mightiest will be 
curbed in their pride]. - 

Therefore, it is very necessary that out of pure instinct of 
self-preservation a movement as soon as it is crowned by 
success immediately limits the admission of members, and 
further carries out the enlarging of its organization only with 
the utmost caution and after the most thorough examination. 
Only by this will it be able to preserve the nucleus of the 
movement unspoilt, fresh, and sound. // has to see to it that 
thereafter solely this nucleus continues to lead the movement; 
that means directs the propaganda which is to lead to its gen- 
eral recognition and which, as the incorporator of power, 
carries out those actions which are necessary for the practical 
realization of its ideas. 

Out of the basic stock of the old movement it has to fill 
not only all the most important positions of the conquered 
structure, but also to form the entire leadership. And this 
[has to be continued] until the previous principles and doc- 
trines of the party have become the foundation and the 

It is notable that with the passing of time leadership has been 
more and more effectively concentrated in the hands of Nazi 
veterans. Economic and financial control (Hitler never claimed 
to have any views on these subjects) was at first exercised by 
relative outsiders Robert Schmitt, Karl Goerdeler, Hjalmar 
Schacht. But today Goering and Walther Funk reign supreme. 
Funk, in the days of his youth a journalist, was a Nazi Reichs- 
tag deputy in 1923, and was known as a private student of 
monetary problems. Ribbentrop, formerly a merchant, joined 
the Nazi Party in 1930. He is described as the man who on 
January 4, 1933, arranged the meeting between Hitler and 
Papen in the house of Herr Schroeder in Cologne, as a result of 
which Hitler became chancellor. Another survivor from older 
times is Colonel Konstantin Hierl, former Bavarian staff 
officer, whose duty is to supervise the activities of the Labor 
Corps. The struggle for control of the army has led to quite 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 855 

content of the new State. Only then can one hand over the 
reins to the special constitution of this State, born of its 
spirit. But this in turn is carried out only in mutual strug- 
gle, since it is a question less of human knowledge than of the 
play and the effect of energies which, though recognized from 
the very beginning, can nevertheless not be guided forever. 
All great movements, whether they be of religious or oj 
political character, have to ascribe their enormous successes 
only to the realization and to the application of these principles, 
but especially all durable successes are unthinkable without 
considering these laws. 



AB the propaganda leader of the party I tried hard not 
only to prepare the ground for the greatness of the future 
movement, but by a very radical concept of this work I 
brought it about that the organization received only the 
best material. For, the more radical and inciting my propa- 
ganda was, the more it frightened off weaklings and irreso- 
lute characters and prevented their pushing into the first 
nucleus of our organization. Perhaps they have remained 
followers, but certainly not by stressing it loudly, but by 
anxiously hushing up this fact. How many thousands as- 
sured me in those days that in themselves they quite agreed 
with everything, but nevertheless they could not be mem- 
bers under any circumstances whatsoever. The movement 
was so radical that membership would expose the individual 
to the most serious difficulties, even dangers, so that one 

different results. General von Schleicher, the real power be- 
hind the scenes until 1933, is dead. General von Blomberg, first 
of the commanders-in-chief under Hitler, has disappeared in 
the wake of an interesting romance. More recently the man 
adjudged to be the hub round which the whole army turned 
General von Beck was likewise relieved of his command. 



856 MEIN KAMPF 

could not blame the honest, peaceful citizen for standing 
aside, at least at first, although he completely belonged to 
the movement with his heart. 

And this was good 

t If all these people who in their innermost self did not agree 
with the Revolution had joined our party in those days 
that means as members today we could consider our- 
selves a pious fraternity, but no longer a young movement, 
eager to fight. 

The vital and reckless form which at that time I gave to 
our propaganda has fortified and guaranteed the radical 
tendency of our movement, since now only radicals with 
some exceptions were ready to assume membership. 

Yet this propaganda had the effect that after a short time 
hundreds of thousands not only agreed with us in their 
minds, but desired our victory, although they were person- 
ally too cowardly to sacrifice anything for it or even to 
stand up for it.-*- 

Up to the middle of 1921 this activity of propaganda could 
still suffice and benefit the movement. But special events in 
the summer of the same year made it appear expedient that 
now, after the slow visible success of propaganda, the or- 
ganization should be adapted and equalized to this. 

The attempt of a group of folkish visionaries, with the 
promoting support of the party committee of that time, at 
procuring for themselves the leadership of the party, led to 
the collapse of this little plot, and in a general meeting of 
members I was unanimously given the entire leadership of 
the movement. At the same time new articles were accepted 
which entrust the first chairman with full responsibility, 
which eliminates decisions of committees, and introduce in 
their stead a system of sharing the work which since that 
time has proved its value in the most blissful manner. 

I took over this inner reorganization of the movement on 
August I, 1921, and I found the support of a number of 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 857 

excellent people whom I find it necessary to mention in a 
special appendix. 

During the attempt at profiting from and establishing the 
results of propaganda for the organization, I had to do 
away with a number of previous habits and had to introduce 
principles which none of the other existing parties possessed 
or even would have recognized. 

During the years 1919 to 1920 the movement had as its 
leaders a committee which was elected by meetings of mem- 
bers, which in turn were prescribed by the by-laws. The 
committee consisted of a first and a second treasurer, a first 
and a second secretary, and as their head a first and a 
second chairman. To this were added the membership 
secretaries, the chief of propaganda, and various additional 
committeemen. 

Funny as it was, this committee incorporated essentially 
what the movement wanted to fight most sharply, namely, 
parUamentarianism. For it was natural that here a prin- 
ciple was involved which, beginning with the smallest local 
group, through districts, counties, and countries, up to the 
Reich leadership, incorporated exactly the same system 
from which we all suffered and suffer still today. 

Here it was imperative to make a change some day, if 
the movement, in consequence of the inferior basis of its 
inner organization, was not to be ruined permanently and 
thus be made incapable some day of fulfilling its high 
mission. 

t The committee meetings, of which minutes were kept, 
and where votes were carried and decisions were made by 
majority, represented in reality a diminutive parliament. 
Here, too, any personal responsibility was lacking. Here, 
too, dominated the same absurdity and the same folly as 
in our great representative bodies of the State. For this 
committee secretaries were appointed, men were appointed 
for the party coffers, men for the membership of the organ- 



858 MEIN KAMPF 

ization, men for propaganda and for the Lord knows what 
else, yet one made all of them together decide by vote on 
every single question. That means that the man who was 
appointed for propaganda voted on a matter which con- 
cerned the man of the finances, and the latter in turn voted 
on a matter concerning the organization, and he in turn 
on a matter which should have concerned the secretaries, etc. 

But why one first appointed a special man for propa- 
ganda, if treasurers, secretaries, membership secretaries, 
etc., had to judge a question that concerned him this 
to a sound mind appears just as incomprehensible as it 
would be incomprehensible if in a great industrial enter- 
prise the directors of the engineers of other departments 
or other branches were to decide on questions which have 
nothing whatsoever to do with their affairs.^ 

I did not give in to this lunacy, but after a very short 
time I stayed away from the meetings. I made my propa- 
ganda, and that was all, and for the rest I refused to permit 
the next-best good-for-nothing to try perhaps to interfere 
in this domain. Precisely as in the opposite case I did not 
interfere in the affairs of the others. 

When the acceptance of the new articles and my appoint- 
ment to the position of first chairman had given me mean- 
while the necessary authority and the corresponding right, 
this nonsense immediately found an end. Instead of the 
committee decisions the principle of absolute responsibility 
was introduced. 

The first chairman is responsible for the entire leadership 
of the movement. He divides the work among the com- 
mitteemen, subordinated to him, as well as among the 
otherwise necessary collaborators. Each of these gentle- 
men is therefore fully responsible for the tasks that have 
been allotted to him. He is subordinate only to the first 
chairman, who has to take care of the co-operation of all 
of them, or, respectively, by selecting the persons and by 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 859 

issuing general principles, has to bring about this collabora- 
tion in person. 

This law of essential responsibility has gradually become 
a matter of course within the movement, at least in so far 
as it concerned the party leadership. In the small local 
groups and perhaps also in the counties and districts it 
will take years before one will be able to put through these 
principles, since, of course, cowards and duty shirkers will 
always resist this; the sole responsibility for an enterprise 
will always be disagreeable to them; they feel better and 
more at ease if for every serious decision they are backed 
by the majority of a so-called committee. But to me it 
appears necessary to take a stand against such an attitude 
with utmost energy, to make no concessions to cowardice 
in connection with responsibility, and thus, although after 
a long time, to create a concept of leader duty and leader 
ability which will exclusively bring to leadership only 
those who are really called upon and chosen for this purpose. 

In any case, a movement which wants to fight the parlia- 
mentary folly must be free of it. Only on such a basis can 
it gain the force necessary for its fight. 

A movement which during a time of the majority ride 
orients itself essentially in all and everything towards the 
leader idea and towards the responsibility conditioned by this 
will some day conquer the previous condition with mathe- 
matical certainty and will emerge victorious. 

Within the movement this thought led to its complete 
reorganization. And in its logical consequence also to a 
very definite separation of the business sections of the 
movement from the general political leadership. In prin- 
ciple, the idea of responsibility was extended also to all 
the party activities and in the same measure it necessarily 
brought about their recovery, since they were freed from 
political influences and oriented towards purely economic 
viewpoints. 



860 MEIN KAMPF 

When in the fall of 1919 I joined the six-man party of 
that time, it had neither an office nor any employee, not 
even forms or rubber stamps; nothing printed existed. 
The place where the committee met was first a tavern in 
the Herrengasse and later a cafe on the Gasteig. This was 
an impossible situation. Therefore, a short while after, I 
set out and inspected quite a number of Munich's restau- 
rants and taverns with the intention of renting some spare 
room or some other room for the party. In the former 
Sterneckerbrau in the Tal there was a small, vault-like 
room which in times past had served as some kind of drink- 
ing room for the Reichs-councillors of Bavaria. It was 
dark and gloomy, and therefore it was as well suited for its 
former destination as it was ill-suited for its newly intended 
purpose. The little street which its only window overlooked 
was so narrow that even on the brightest summer day the 
room remained gloomy and dark. This became our first 
office. As the rent was only fifty marks a month (in those 
days an enormous amount for us!) we could not make 
great demands and could not even complain that before 
we moved in the paneling, once destined for the Reichs- 
councillors, was hurriedly torn out, so that now the room 
really gave the impression more of a vault than of an office. 

Yet this was an enormous progress. Slowly we acquired 
electricity, and even more slowly, a telephone; a table with 
a few borrowed chairs was put in, finally an open shelf, 
still a little later a cupboard; two sideboards, which be- 
longed to the innkeeper, were to serve for the keeping of 
leaflets, posters, etc. The previous arrangement that 
means the leadership of the movement by a meeting of the 
committee once a week was untenable in the long run. 
Only an official, paid by the movement, could guarantee 
continued office activity. 

At that time this was very difficult. The movement had 
still so few members that it required great skill to find 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 861 

among them a suitable man who with the lowest demands 
for his own person would be able to fulfill the numerous 
demands of the movement. 

After a long search the first business manager of the party 
was found in the person of an old soldier, a former comrade 
of mine, Schuessler. First he came daily to our office be- 
tween six and eight, later from five to eight, finally every 
afternoon, and a short time afterwards, he was appointed 
full time, and now he discharged his services from morning 
till late at night. He was a man as decent as fundamentally 
most honest, who personally took the greatest pains, and 
who faithfully adhered especially to the movement itself. 
Schuessler brought with him a small Adler typewriter 
which was his property. It was the first of such machines 
in the service of the party. It was later acquired by the 
party by installment payments. A small safe seemed neces- 
sary in order to safeguard the card index and the member- 
ship books against theft. Its purchase, therefore, was not 
carried out in order to deposit the enormous amounts of 
money which then we might perhaps have owned. On the 
contrary, everything was most beggarly, and often I added 
out of my small savings. 

A year and a half later the little office was too small, 
and a move into a new place in the Corneliusstrasse took 
place. Again it was a tavern into which we moved, but 
now we no longer had only one room, but three rooms and 
a great counter in addition. In those days this appeared 
to us very much. Here we remained until November, 1923. 

In December, 1920, the acquisition of the Volkischer 
Beobachter took place. The latter which, according to its 

The Volkischer Beobachter was originally the property of the 
Thule Gesellschaft, a secret patriotic society with a fairly smart 
membership. It had a certain real value after the War because 
it was the only Right radical newspaper in Munich with a per* 



862 ME1N KAMPF 

name, presented folkish concerns, was now to be turned 
into the organ of the N.S.G.W.P. First it was published 
twice weekly, at the beginning of 1923 it became a daily, 
and at the end of August, 1923, it was given its later known 
great size. 

As a complete newcomer in the field of newspaper life, 
I had to pay heavily for my experiences in those days. 

Looked at objectively, the fact that in the face of the 
enormous Jewish press there existed not a single really 
important folkish newspaper was bound to cause reflection. 
As afterwards I was able to determine in praxis innumer- 
able times, this was due for the greater part to the un- 
businesslike management of so-called folkish enterprises 
on the whole. They were conducted much too much ac- 
cording to the viewpoint that loyalty comes before achieve- 
ment. A thoroughly incorrect viewpoint, in so far as loyalty 
cannot be anything outwardly demonstrated, but some- 

mit to secure paper then a commodity difficult to acquire 
and carefully rationed out. The processes by which it was pried 
away from its owners and made a Nazi organ have never been 
fully cleared up. For a time it appears to have remained the 
property of Dietrich Eckart, whose position among the anti- 
Semitic journalists of Germany was a respectable one. During 
1923, it is said, Hitler was able to buy the paper with the help 
of donations in foreign currency and a loan from his friend 
Hanfstaengl. Accidentally an American rotary press was 
offered for sale cheap. It was purchased, and so the daily 
Vdlkischer Bcobachter there was a daily in 1923, and publi- 
cation on this basis was resumed in 1925 had the largest 
format in Germany. Heiden says also that money came from 
Frau Gertrud von Seidlitz, an aristocratic lady residing in one 
of the Baltic States. Dietrich Eckart then retired, and Alfred 
Rosenberg became the editor-in-chief. Max Amann was the 
business manager. Though in financial straits for a time, the 
paper eventually became a gold mine. 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 863 

thing that finds its most sublime expression in the very 
achievement. He who creates something really valuable 
for his people demonstrates by this a loyalty just as 
valuable, while someone else, who merely simulates loyalty, 
without actually rendering valuable services to his people, 
is an injury to any real loyalty. He also burdens the com- 
munity of his loyalty. 

The Voelkischer Beobachter also as its name already 
indicates was a so-called 'folkish' organ with all the 
advantages and even more the faults and the weaknesses 
which are characteristic of folkish institutions. As honor- 
able as its contents were, as impossible, from the business 
viewpoint, was the management of the enterprise. This, 
too, was based on the opinion that folkish newspapers must 
be (maintained by folkish donations, instead of the view- 
point that they have to maintain themselves in the compet- 
itive struggle with the other papers, and that it is an in- 
decency to cover the neglects or the mistakes of the business 
management of the enterprise by donations from well- 
meaning patriots. 

In any case, I took pains to abolish this condition which 
I soon had recognized in its seriousness, and luck assisted 
me in so far as it made me acquainted with the man who 
since then, not only as the business manager of the paper 
but also as the first business manager of the party, has 
rendered tremendously valuable services to the movement. 
In the year 1914, that means at the front, I got to know 

Amann now has most of Germany's important newspapers 
and publishing houses under his thumb. Hitler is said to place 
unlimited confidence in this man. A personage not mentioned 
in Mein Kampf is the photographer Heinrich Hoffman, who 
played an important part in the business organization of the 
Party propaganda and eventually rose to affluence as camera- 
man -in -chief to Hitler. Other early Party publications that 



S64 MEIN KAMPF 

(then still my superior) the present general business manager 
of the party, Herr Amann. During the four years of the 
War I had the opportunity to observe almost continuously 
the extraordinary ability, the industriousness, and the 
scrupulous conscientiousness of my future collaborator. 

In midsummer of 1921, when the movement was in a 
serious crisis and when I could no longer be satisfied with 
a number of employees, even had had the most bitter 
experience with one of them, I turned to my former comrade 
of the regiment whom chance brought to me one day, with 
the request that he now become the business manager of 
the movement. After long hesitation Amann was hold- 
ing a position with very good prospects he finally con- 
sented, but on the express condition that he would never 
have to serve as bailiff for any sort of inefficient committees, 
but that he would recognize only one single master. 

It is the everlasting merit of this first business manager 
of the party, who as a business man was really widely 
trained, that he brought order and cleanliness into the 
party affairs. Since then they have remained models and 
could never be reached, let alone surpassed, by any of the 
subdivisions of the movement. As always in life, superior 
efficiency is not infrequently the cause for envy and jeal- 
ousy. In this case, too, one had of course to expect this and 
to take it patiently into the bargain, 
t As early as in the year 1922 there existed generally firm 
directions for the business as well as for the organizing 
construction of the movement. There already existed a 
complete central card index which included all the members 

remain sources of information concerning the rise and the 
ideology of the movement are the N.S. Bibliothek, a series of 
brochures edited by Feder, and the N.S. Monatsheftc, founded 
in 1930 by Rosenberg. The official news-service, the N.S. 
, began to appear in 1932. 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 165 

belonging to the party. The financing of the movement, 
too, had been brought into sound courses. Current expenses 
had to be covered by current receipts, unusual income was 
used only for unusual expenses. Despite the seriousness of 
the time, the movement by this procedure remained almost 
completely free of debt; it even succeeded in carrying out 
a continued increase of its resources. The work was carried 
on as in private business: the personnel employed had to 
distinguish itself through achievements and in no event 
could it merely rely upon the famous 'loyalty/ The loyalty 
of every National Socialist proves itself first of all in his 
readiness, in his industriousness, and his ability in achiev- 
ing the work allotted to him by the national community. 
He who does not fulfill his duty in this respect must not 
brag about a loyalty against which he sins in reality. The 
new business manager of the party, in the face of all sorts 
of influences, with the utmost energy represented the view- 
point that party affairs must not be a sinecure for followers 
or members who are but little willing to work. A movement 
which fights so sharply against the party corruption of our 
present administrative apparatus must keep its own ap- 
paratus free from such vices.^ The case happened that in 
the administration of the paper, employees were accepted 
who, according to their loyalty, beFonged to the Bavarian 
National Party, but measured by their achievements they 
proved themselves excellently qualified. The result of 
this experiment was generally outstanding. Precisely by 
the honest and frank acknowledgment of the actual achieve- 
ment of the individual did the movement conquer the 
hearts of these employees more quickly and more rapidly 
than would otherwise have been the case. They later be- 
came good National Socialists and remained so, not only 
by their words, but they proved it by the conscientious, 
proper, and honest work which they discharged in the 
service of the new movement. It is natural that the well- 



866 MEIN KAMPF 

qualified party member was preferred to the equally well- 
liked non-party member. But nobody was given a position 
solely on the basis of his party membership. The deter- 
mination with which the new manager represented and 
gradually, despite all obstacles, fought out these principles 
was later of the greatest benefit to the movement. Only 
thus was it possible that in the difficult time of the in- 
flation, when tens of thousands of enterprises perished and 
thousands of newspapers had to close down, the manage- 
ment of the movement not only continued to exist and was 
able to fulfill its tasks, but that the Voelkischer Beobachter 
experienced an ever greater expansion. In those days it 
had entered the ranks of the great newspapers. 

The year 1921 had further the significance that through 
my position as chairman of the party I gradually succeeded 
in removing also the individual party sections from criticism 
and interference by any number of committee members. 
This was important because one could not win a really able 
head for a task, while good-for-nothings with their chatter 
continuously interfered, pretended to know everything 
better, only to leave behind them the most terrible muddle. 
Whereupon these know-alls usually retired quite modestly, 
in order to find a new field for their controlling and inspiring 
activity. There were people who were obsessed with an 
obvious disease of finding something behind everything 
and anything, and who lived in a kind of permanent preg- 
nancy with excellent plans, ideas, projects, and methods. 
Their most ideal and their highest aim was for the most 
part the formation of a committee which, as the controlling 
organ, had to put its expert nose into the orderly work of 
the others. But how insulting and how tin-National Social- 
istic is it if people, who do not understand a matter, con- 
tinuously interfere with the work of the real experts, 
probably never entered the consciousness of many of these 
professional committeemen. In any case, I considered it 



PROPAGANDA AND ORGANIZATION 867 

my duty in those years to protect all employees of the 
movement, who were burdened with responsibility and 
who did their work well, against such elements, to give 
them the necessary protection and to clear the working 
field ahead of them. 

The best means for rendering harmless such committees, 
which did nothing or which merely brewed together deci- 
sions that were practically inexcusable, was actually to 
give them some real work. It made one laugh to see how 
noiselessly then such a society evaporated and suddenly 
could not be traced any more. In this connection I thought 
of our greatest of such institutions, the Reichstag. How 
they would all suddenly evaporate if one were merely to 
give them real work instead of just speech-making; that 
means a task which each individual of these boasters would 
have to discharge under personal responsibility. 

As early as in those days I made the demand that, as 
everywhere in private life, also in the movement, the in- 
dividual sections should search until the obviously able 
and honest official, manager, or leader were found. The 
latter, then, would be given absolute authority and freedom 
of action towards below, with the duty of complete re- 
sponsibility towards above, in which case no one is given 
authority towards his subordinates unless he himself knows 
a better way of doing the work involved. In the course of 
two years I enforced my opinion more and more and today 
it is already a matter of course in the movement, at least 
in so far as the highest leadership is concerned. 

The visible success of this attitude, however, was shown 
on November 9, 1923: when I had joined the movement 
four years previously, there existed not even a rubber stamp. 
On November 9, 1923, the dissolution of the party, the 
sequestration of its property, took place. The latter, in- 
clusive of all objects of value and the paper, amounted to 
more than one hundred and seventy thousand gold Marks. 



CHAPTER XII 
THE TRADE- UNION QUESTION 



IN THE year 1922 the rapid growth of the movement 
compelled us to define our attitude towards a question 
which has not been fully solved even today. 
During our attempts at studying those methods which 
would be able to pave the movement's way to the hearts of 
the great masses most readily and most easily, we met 
again and again the objection that the worker would never 
fully belong to us as long as the representation of his in- 
terests in the purely vocational and economic domains was 
in the hands and the political organizations of people with 
a different political loyalty. 

t This objection, of course, was well founded. The worker 
who worked in a factory according to general opinion 
could not exist at all if he did not become a member of a 
union. Not only his vocational concerns seemed protected 
solely by this, also his position in the workshop was in the 
long run conceivable only when being a member of a union. 
The majority of the workers belonged to trade unions. 
The latter, in general, had fought out the wage struggles 
and had made the wage-scale agreements which now guar- 
anteed the worker a certain income. The results of these 
struggles doubtless benefited all workers of the shop, and 
especially for the decent man there were bound to arise con- 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 869 

flicts of conscience if he pocketed the wages fought for by 
the unions, but if he excluded himself from the fight. 

It was difficult to speak about these problems with the 
normal bourgeois employers. They had no understanding (or 
did not want to have any understanding) for the material 
side of the question, nor for the moral side. Finally, the 
economic interests, allegedly their own, speak from the 
very beginning against any integration into an organization 
of the workers employed by them, so that merely for this 
reason most of the employers find it hard to form an un- 
biased judgment. Therefore here, as so many times, it is 
necessary to turn to the outsiders who do not succumb to 
the temptation of overlooking the woods because of the 
trees. With good will they will more easily have under- 
standing for an affair which in one way or the other belongs 
to the most important questions of our present and future 
life.** 

In the first volume I have already expressed my opinion 
on the nature and the necessity of trade unions. There I 
held the viewpoint that, as long as a change in the attitude 
of the employer towards the employee does not take place, 
either by measures on the part of the State (which, how- 
ever, are unfruitful in most cases) or by a general, new edu- 
cation, the only thing the worker can do is to guard per- 
sonally his interests, by emphasizing his right as an equally 
important contracting party in economic life; I have further 
emphasized that such a safeguarding absolutely corresponds 
to the meaning of an entire national community if through 
it social injustices, which later are bound to lead to serious 
injuries of the entire community life of a people, can be 
prevented; I further declared that this necessity must be 
considered as existing as long as there are among the em- 
ployers people who themselves have not only no sense for 
social duties, but not even for the most primitive human 
rights; and from this I drew the conclusion that, once such 



870 MEIN KAMPF 

self-defense is considered necessary, its form can sensibly 
exist only in an integration of the employees on the basis of 
a trade union. 

I did not change this general concept even in the year 
1922. But I had to seek a clear and definite formulation for 
the attitude towards these problems. It would not do to 
content oneself further simply with conclusions, but it was 
necessary to draw practical consequences from them. 

The answer to the following questions was involved: 

(1) Are trade unions necessary? 

(2) Has the N.S.G.W.P. itself to take up trade-union 
activity or has it to bring its numbers to such an activity in 
some form or other? 

(3) Of what nature must a National Socialist trade union 
be? What are our tasks and their aims? 

(4) How can we arrive at such trade unions? 

I believe that I have answered the first question suffi- 
ciently. Such as the situation is today, trade unions can- 

The effect of the control exercised over production and prices 
during the World War was to shake the German economic 
structure to its foundations. It seemed as if a return to free 
capitalistic enterprise (though that was never as free in Ger- 
many as in Great Britain and the United States) would be im- 
possible. General Groener had called attention to the 'demo- 
cratic wave ' which had passed over the world as a result of the 
common war experience. Employer and employee had stood 
side by side at the front. Accordingly the leaders of German 
industry and of German labor were brought together during 
the summer of 1918 to consider the establishment of Reich- 
sarbietgemeinschaften (Reich Work Communal! ties), which 
were to associate capital and labor in the performance of indus- 
trial tasks. The theoretical beginnings were promising enough. 
But the upheaval incident to the Revolution, the shortages of 
goods and raw materials, and the pernicious effect of the infla- 
tion tended to convince both sides more deeply than ever be- 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 871 

not be dispensed with, in my opinion. On the contrary, they 
belong to the most important institutions of the economic 
life of the nation. But their importance lies not only in the 
social-political domain, but even more in a national politi- 
cal domain. For a people whose great masses receive the 
satisfaction of their vital needs by a correct union move- 
ment, but at the same time also an education, will thereby 
experience an extraordinary strengthening of its entire re- 
sistibility in the struggle for life. 

The trade unions are above all necessary as the building 
stones of the future economic parliaments, that is, the estate 
chambers. 

f The second question, too, can be answered easily. If 
the union movement is important, then it is clear that Na- 
tional Socialism has to define its attitude towards it not 



fore of the righteousness of their divergent points of view. 
Two experiences were especially embittering the recourse of 
organized labor to the general strike in order to put down the 
Kapp putsch, and the willingness of certain industrialists to 
capitulate when the Ruhr invasion, which had called forth so 
much heroic self-sacrifice on the part of the labor organizations, 
seemed to mean an economic dibdcle for Germany. 

The major Labor organizations were: the Free Trade Unions, 
which were theoretically neutral but maintained close contact 
with the Social Democratic Party; the Christian Trade Unions, 
members of which were to a great extent affiliated with the 
Center Party or the German National Party; and the Hindi- 
Duncker Unions, which retained democratic political connec- 
tions. Membership in these organizations increased greatly 
during post- War years. They were powerful exponents of the 
workingman's viewpoint, conducted successful co-operative 
banking and merchandising enterprises, and exercised very 
considerable educational influence. Nevertheless the struggle 
incident to the maintenance of the Republic sapped much of 
the energy of the unions. Many a Social Democratic function- 



172 MEIN KAMPF 

only theoretically, but also practically. However, the 
'haw' is even more difficult to explain. -4- 

The National Socialist movement, which as the goal of 
its activity has before its eyes the National Socialist folkish 
State, must not be in doubt that all future institutions of 
this future State must grow out of the very movement. 
It is the greatest mistake to believe that suddenly out of 
nothing, merely in the possession of power, one could carry 
out a certain reorganization, without already possessing a 
certain basic stock of humans who have previously been 
schooled especially as regards their loyalty. Here, too, the 
principle applies that more important than the outward 
form which can be created mechanically very quickly 
is the spirit which fills such a form. fOne can, for instance, 
graft the leader principle dictatorially upon a State organ- 
ism by command. But this will be a living thing only if, by 
a development of its own, it has gradually formed itself 
out of the smallest details, and if, by the continued selec- 
tion, which the hard reality of life carries out uninterrupt- 
edly, it receives, in the course of many years, the leader 
material necessary for carrying out this principle.^ 

Therefore, one must not imagine that one could suddenly 

ary was worn out by the constant struggle with the Commu- 
nists; and the hard work exacted of the Christian Union lead- 
ers, several of whom held offices in the government at one time 
or another, also took its toll. By 1930 the specter of unemploy- 
ment and of wage decreases haunted virtually every German 
citizen, bringing fear into the stoutest worker's heart. Re- 
sistance to dictatorship was impossible when that meant star- 
vation and joblessness. The first National Socialist plan was to 
undermine the Unions by establishing 'cells' in every plant. 
The maneuver failed to affect the workers to any appreciable 
extent. But the salaried employees found much that was at- 
tractive in the Nazi program, and the Party gained ground 
rapidly among them. 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 873 

take out of a briefcase the drafts for a new State constitu- 
tion and that one could ' introduce ' them now, by a decree 
of power, from above. One can try such a thing, but the 
result will certainly not be able to live, will in most cases be 
a stillborn child. This reminds me vividly of the origin of 
the Weimar Constitution and of the attempt at presenting 
the German people, together with a new constitution, also 
with a new flag which had no inner connection with the 
experiences of our people during the past half-century. 

The National Socialist State also has to beware of such 
experiments. It will some day only be able to grow out of an 
organization which has long existed. This organization 
must intrinsically have the life spark of National Socialism 
so that finally it can create a living National Socialist 
State. 

f As already stressed, the germ cells for the estate chambers 
will have to rest in the various vocational representations, 
that means above all in the trade unions. But if the future 
estate's representation and the central economic parlia- 
ment are to present a National Socialist institution, then 
also these important germ cells will have to be the bearers 
of a National Socialist loyalty and concept. The institu- 
tions of the movement have to be transferred to the State, 
but the State cannot suddenly conjure up corresponding in- 
stitutions out of nothing, unless they are to remain wholly 
lifeless formations. 

Merely out of this highest viewpoint, the National 
Socialist movement has to recognize the necessity of a trade- 
union activity of its own. 

It must do so further for the reason that a genuinely Na- 
tional Socialist education of employers as well as of em- 
ployees, in the sense of a mutual integration in the common 
frame of the national community, is not carried out by 
theoretical instruction, appeals, or remonstrances, but by 
the fight of everyday life. With it and by it the movement 



874 MEIN KAMPF 

has to educate the various great economic groups and to 
bring them closer together as regards the great viewpoints. 
Without such a preparation any hope for the rise of a future 
genuine national community remains pure illusion. Only 
the great ideal of a view of life for which the movement 
fights can gradually form that general style which then, one 
day, makes the new era appear as internally really firmly 
founded and not as merely outwardly made. 

Thus the movement has to take an affirmative attitude 
towards the idea of the trade union as such, and by practi- 
cal activity it has to give the vast number of its followers 
and members the required education for the future Na- 
tional Socialist State. 

The answer to the third question results from what has 
been said before. 

The National Socialist trade union is not an instrument of 
doss fight, but an instrument of vocational representation. 
The National Socialist State knows no 'classes,' but in politi- 
cal respect only citizens with fully equal rights and, accord- 
ingly, also equal general duties, and on the other hand State 
subjects who, however, are completely without rights with re- 
gard to State politics. 

The trade union in the National Socialist sense has not 
the task of transforming, by integration, certain people 
within a national body into a class, in order to take up with 
it the fight against another similarly organized formation 
inside the national community. This task we cannot ascribe 
to the union as such at all, but it was given to it the moment 
it became the fighting instrument of Marxism. Not the 
union fights a doss fight ('Klassenkdmpferisch'), but Marx- 
ism has turned it into an instrument for its class struggle. It 
created the economic weapon which the international world 
Jew used for the smashing of the economic basis of the free, 
independent national States, for the destruction of their 
national industries and their national trade, and with this, 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 875 

finally, for the enslavement of free nations in the service of 
the international world finance Judaism. 

In view of this the National Socialist union, by integration 
of certain groups of participants in the national economic 
process, must increase the security of national economy itself 
and strengthen its power by corrective elimination of all those 
abuses which, in their ultimate consequences, have a destruc- 
tive influence on the national body, and which damage the vital 
force of the national community, and with it also that of the 
State, and which last, but nor least, turn out to be the mis- 
fortune and the destruction of economy itself. 

Therefore, for the National Socialist union the strike is 
not a means for smashing and undermining national produc- 
tion, but for its increase and for making it flow, by fighting 
all those abuses which, in consequence of their unsocial 
character, hamper the efficiency and with it the existence 
of the community. For the efficiency of the individual is al- 
ways causatively connected with the general legal and social 
position which he has in the economic process and the recog- 
nition, resulting solely from this, of the necessity of the 
thriving of this process for his own benefit. 

The National Socialist worker must know that the flowering 
of national economy means his own material fortune. 

The National Socialist employer must know that the fortune 
and the satisfaction of his employees are the premise for the 
existence and the development of his own economic importance. 

National Socialist employees and National Socialist em- 
ployers both are char gees and guardians of the entire national 
community. The great measure of personal freedom which 

There have been scattered attempts to strike since 1933, but 
not one has reached proportions worth mentioning. More im- 
pressive has been the increasing indifference of workers to Party 
instruction an indifference to which journalist and orator 
have often referred chidingly. 



876 MEIN KAMPF 

is hereby granted to them in their activity can be explained 
by the fact that, according to experience, the efficiency of 
the individual is increased more by a far-reaching granting 
of freedom than by compulsion from above, and it must 
further prevent the process of natural selection, which is 
to promote the most efficient, the most able, and the most 
industrious, from being cut short. 

For the National Socialist union, therefore, a strike is a 
measure which can and must be applied only as long as there 
exists no National Socialist folkish State. The latter, how- 
ever, has to take over instead of the mass struggle of the 
two great groups employers and employees (which in its 
consequences, by decrease of production, always injured the 
national community as a whole!) the legal care and the 
legal protection of all individuals. The economic chambers will 
have to be entrusted with the obligation of keeping the 
national economy going and of abolishing defects and faults 
injurious to it. What today is fought out by a struggle of 
millions must one day find its settlement in estate chambers 
and in the central economic parliament. Thus the employers 
and workers will no longer rage against one another in 
wage and wage-scale battles, injuring the economic existence 
of both of them, but they will solve these problems in com- 
mon in a higher instance which above all has forever to 
have before its eyes, in brilliant letters, the welfare of the 
national community and of the State. 

Here, too, as everywhere, the iron-like principle has to 
hold that the fatherland comes first and thereafter the 
party. 

The task of the National Socialist union is the education 
and the preparation for these very aims, which means then: 
common work by all for the preservation and the safeguarding 
of our nation and its State, corresponding to the abilities and 
forces, inborn in the individual and developed by the national 
community. 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 877 

The fourth question: How can we arrive at such unions? 
seemed at that time by far the most difficult to answer. 

In general, it is easier to carry out a foundation in a new 
domain than in an old one which has already a similar 
foundation. In a place where there does not yet exist a shop 
of a certain kind one can easily open such a shop. It is more 
difficult if a similar enterprise already exists, and most 
difficult if conditions are given by which only a single enter- 
prise is able to thrive. For here the founders are faced with 
the task of introducing not only their own new business, 
but, in order to be able to exist, they must destroy that 
which already exists in the place. 

A National Socialist trade union, side by side with other 
unions, is senseless. For it must feel that it is permeated 
with its task of a view of life and with the obligation, born 
of it, of intolerance towards similar or even hostile forma- 
tions and of emphasizing the exclusive necessity of its ego. 
Here, too, there is no coming to terms and no compromise 
with related endeavors, but only the maintenance of its 
own absolute right. 

There were two ways for arriving at such a development: 

(1) A union of our own could be founded and then one 
could take up gradually the fight against the inter- 
national Marxist unions; or one could 

(2) penetrate into the Marxist unions and try to fill them 
with the new spirit; that means reshape them into in- 
struments of the new world of thoughts. 

The following objections spoke against the first way: our 
financial difficulties at that time were still very consider- 
able, the funds at our disposal were very insignificant. 
The gradually more and more spreading inflation aggra- 
vated the situation by the fact that in those years one could 
hardly have spoken of a tangible material advantage of the 
union for the individual member. The individual worker, 
looked at from this viewpoint, had at that time no reason 



878 MEIN KAMPF 

for contributing towards the union. Indeed, the existing 
Marxist unions were near collapse, until millions were 
suddenly poured into their laps by the brilliant Ruhr activi- 
ties of Herr von Cuno. This so-called 'national' Reichs- 
chancellor must be called the savior of the Marxist trade 
unions. 

We could not count at that time with such financial 
possibilities; and nobody could be enticed to join a trade 
union which, in consequence of its financial weakness, was 
not able to offer him anything at all. On the other hand, I 
had to fight most sharply against creating, by such a new 
organization, merely a duty-shirking post for more or less 
great minds. 

The question of personalities was, among others, one of 
the most important. In those days I had not one single 

Gregor Strasser had doubtless been considered the man, who, 
if the Nazis came to power, would head the German labor 
movement. But after his break with Hitler, Dr. Robert Ley 
was groomed for the post. A more original labor leader could 
scarce be imagined, but behind him stands a group of bureau- 
crats who function with the customary German efficiency. 
The Arbeitsfront (Labor Front) is said to have a membership 
of more than 20,000,000 persons, and is of course the only legal 
workers' organization. It had been intended to create some- 
thing modeled after the system adopted in Fascist Italy; but 
Ley informs us that while he was wrestling with the difficulties 
which such a plan of reorganization involved, he conferred with 
Hitler and found that a perfect solution had been found by the 
Ftihrcr's genius. Treuhdnder der Arbeit were appointed, one 
for each of the thirteen districts into which economic Germany 
had been divided in accordance with the 'Four- Year Plan/ 
These offices are officially described, in the Law of May 19, 
1933, as follows: 'Until the reorganization of the social consti- 
tution, the Treuhdnder take the places of the workers 9 trade 
unions, as well as of the employers and their organizations, io 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 879 

head whom I would have entrusted with the solution of this 
enormous task. He who in those days would really have 
smashed the Marxist trade unions, in order to help the Na- 
tional Socialist trade-union idea to victory instead of this 
institution of the destructive class struggle belonged to the 
very great men of our nation and his bust should one day have 
been dedicated to posterity in the Valhalla at Regensburg. 

But I did not know one head which would have been 
fitting for such a pedestal. 

It is a great mistake to have oneself diverted from this 
opinion by the fact that the international trade unions 
themselves had at their disposal only average heads. This 
means nothing at all in reality; for at the time those unions 
were founded there existed nothing else. Today the Na- 
tional Socialist movement has to fight against a long- 



the task of concluding agreements concerning contracts for 
work which shall be acceptable to all the interested parties.' 
Committees of experts chosen from both capital and labor have 
since (Decree of March 10, 1934) been associated with the 
Treuh&amp;nder. At the same time, the organization of the 'eco- 
nomic interests' of the nation was undertaken, in accordance 
with ideas formulated, it would seem, by Dr. Robert Schmitt and 
a group of advisers. Since that time, a number of other attempts 
have been made to bridge the gap between capital and labor. 
For example, 'courts of honor 9 have been set up to regulate the 
conduct of employers; 'committees of study' have been ap- 
pointed to assure common inquiry, by representatives of both 
sides, into ways and means of co-operation ; and 'coordinators' 
have been appointed to supervise, speed up and utilize produc- 
tion. Recently there has been appointed (January 13, 1939) 
a 'seventh hierarchy/ the function of which is to 'co-ordinate 
the co-ordinators.' 

No adequate account of the relations between capital, labor 
and government in modern Germany is available. Even the 
regulations are often shrouded in secrecy, as witness the report 



880 MEIN KAMPF 

existing colossal giant organization, worked out into the 
smallest detail. The conqueror, however, has always to be 
more ingenious than the defender, if he wants to overcome 
him. The fortress of Marxist trade unions can today be 
administered by ordinary bosses; but it can only be at- 
tacked by the ferocious energy and the ingenious efficiency 
of a superior great man on the other side. But if such a man 
is not found it is useless to quarrel with Fate, and even more 
senseless, to want to force the affair with inefficient substi- 
tutes. 

Here it means to make use of the realization that in life 
it is sometimes better to leave a matter alone at first, rather 
than, because of the lack of suitable forces, to start it half- 
heartedly or badly. 

Another reflection, which by no means must be called 
demagogic, was added. At that time and also today, I am 
of the unshakable conviction that it is dangerous to combine 
a great fight for a political view of life with economic ques- 
tions at too early a time. This is true especially of our 
German people. For in such a case, the economic struggle 
will here immediately draw the energy from the political 
fight. For, once the people have won the conviction that by 

on industry issued by General Goering during 1937, copies of 
which have been spirited out of the country despite the risk of 
incurring penalties. The best available testimony concerning 
the attitude of the workers is that supplied by the Dcutschland- 
Berichte der Sopadt (German Correspondence of the Social 
Democratic Party) which, though naturally colored by politi- 
cal bias, have come directly out of Germany itself. The general 
tendency among observers is to look upon the Nazi system as 
an experiment in Planwirtschaft (planned economy). Some 
dismiss all that has been done as callow exploitation. Others 
think that Germany is groping towards something new. Cf. 
also 'Labor under the Nazis/ by Norman Thomas, in Foreign 
Affairs (1936). 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 881 

economy they can obtain a small house, they will devote 
themselves to this task exclusively, and they will not have 
any spare time for the political fight against those who in 
one way or another intend some day to take away the 
pennies they have saved up. Instead of struggling in a 
political fight for the knowledge and the conviction they 
have won, they more and more wrap themselves in their 
'settlement' ideas, and in the end, in most cases, they find 
themselves between two stools. 

Today the National Socialist movement stands at the 
beginning of its struggle. For the greater part it has first 
to shape and to complete the picture of its view of life. 
With all the fibers of its energy it has to struggle for the 
maintenance of its great ideals, and success is conceivable 
only if the entire force completely enters the service of this 
fight. 

But how much the occupation with merely economic 
problems is able to paralyze the active fighting force we see 
before us in a classical example, especially today: 

The Revolution of November, 1918, was not made by trade 
unions, but it struggled through in spite of them. And the 
German bourgeoisie does not wage a political fight for the 
German future, because il thinks that this future is sufficiently 
secured in the constructive work of economy. 

We ought to learn also from such experiences; for with 
us, too, things would not take a different course. The more 
we compress the entire force of our movement for the 
political fight, the sooner we will be allowed to count with 
success on the entire front; but the more we occupy our- 
selves prematurely with trade unions, settlement, and 
similar problems, the smaller will be the profit for our cause, 
taken as a whole. No matter how important these concerns 
may be, their fulfillment will arrive on a large scale only 
after we are in a situation to put the public power into the 
service of these ideas. Until then these problems would 



882 MEIN KAMPF 

paralyze the movement the more, the earlier the movement 
would occupy itself with them and the more strongly 
thereby its intention as a view of life would be impaired. 
Then it could easily happen that trade-unionist momenta 
would lead the political movement, instead of the view of life 
forcing the union in its course. 

Actual profit for the movement as wett as for our nation as 
such can grow from a National Socialist trade union only if, 
in its view of life, it is already so strongly filled by our National 
Socialist ideas that it no longer runs the risk of falling into 
Marxist tracks. For a National Socialist trade union which 
sees its mission only in the competition with the Marxist 
unions would be worse than no union at all. It has to declare 
war on the Marxist trade union not only as an organization 
but above all as an idea. In it it has to meet the propagator 
of the class fight and of the class idea and in its stead it 
must become the guardian of the vocational interests of 
German citizens. 

At that time and still today, all these viewpoints spoke 
against the foundation of trade unions of our own, except 
that suddenly a head were to appear whom Fate has 
obviously called forth for the solution of this very question. 

Therefore, there were only two other possibilities: either 
to recommend to our party members to leave the trade 
unions, or to remain in the hitherto existing ones, in order 
to work there as destructively as possible. 

I generally recommended the second way. 

Especially in the year 1922-23 one could do so quite well; 
for the financial profit which during the inflation the trade 
union drew from the not very numerous members in 
consequence of the youth of our movement was equal to 
naught. But the damage done to it was very great, for the 
National Socialist adherents were its sharpest critics and 
by this its internal destroyers. 

I flatly rejected all experiments which from the outset 



THE TRADE-UNION QUESTION 883 

harbored failure. I would have considered it a crime to 
take from the small wages of a worker an amount for an 
institution of whose benefit for its members I was not 
convinced in my mind. 

If a new political party disappears some day, then this 
is hardly ever a disadvantage, but always an advantage, for 
nobody has any right to complain about this; for what the 
individual gives to a political movement he gives d fond 
perdu. But he who contributes to a trade union has a claim 
on the fulfillment of advantages in exchange which were 
promised to him. If this is not taken into account, then the 
makers of such a union are cheats, or, to say the least, 
frivolous people who should be called to account.-^ 

In accordance with this view we acted in the year 1922. 
Others apparently knew better and founded trade unions. 
They reproached us with the absence of such a union as the 
reason for the most obvious sign of our faulty and narrow- 
minded attitude. But it did not take long before these very 
foundations disappeared, so that the final result was the 
same as ours. With the only difference that we had be- 
trayed neither ourselves nor others. 

The capitulation of the trade unions is not easy to explain. 
Four causes are usually enumerated. First, the workers and 
their leaders had grown so accustomed to a revisionistic atti- 
tude that they had lost the instinct for taking a stand on broad 
issues of political principle. Second, everyone was deluded by 
the re-election of President von Hindenburg. Since he had been 
put back into office after a hard fight by a democratic major- 
ity, it was assumed that he would respect the convictions of 
those who had elected him. Few estimated the dismissal of 
Brtining at its true worth, and the 'social policy* of General 
von Schleicher (chancellor in 1932) added to the confusion. 
Third, labor was weakened by the inexplicable attitude of the 
Communists, who seemed to feel that they could either make 
common cause with the Nazis or that the 'proletarian revolu- 



884 MEIN KAMPF 

tion' would dawn after six months of Hitler. Fourth, the pre- 
vailing levels of unemployment made orthodox trade-union 
leaders hesitate to make use of the weapon of the general 
strike. Yet it is probable that, if carefully managed, such a 
strike would have kept von Schleicher in power and thus have 
foiled Hitler and Papen. The Christian trade unions were even 
more befuddled by the developments. Many of their leaders 
believed that under Hitler the management of the new labor 
organizations would be entrusted to them. From this illusion 
they were rudely awakened. 



CHAPTER XIII 

GERMAN POLICY OF ALLI- 
ANCE AFTER THE WAR 



"TP^HE utter thoughtlessness of the Reich's foreign- 
I policy leadership in drafting principles for a proper 
policy of alliance not only continued after the 
Revolution, but was even exceeded. Because, if general 
confusion of political concepts could pass as the cause of our 
unsuccessful pre-War statesmanship in dealing with foreign 
countries, after the War there was a lack of good faith. It 
was natural that the circles, which finally saw their destruc- 
tive scheme realized through the Revolution, could have no 
interest in a policy of alliance whose final outcome must be 
the re-establishment of a free German national sovereign 
State. Not only would such a development contradict the 
inner meaning of the November crime, not only would it 
have interrupted or even terminated the internationalizing 
of German economy and labor power: the internal political 
effects consequent on a fight for liberation in foreign policy 
would also be fatal in the future to the present holders of 
powers of the Reich. One can simply not conceive of a 
nation's rebellion without its previous nationalization, as, 
conversely, every mighty success in foreign policy neces- 
sarily has similar repercussions. Experience shows that 
every struggle for liberation leads to a heightening of 



886 MEIN KAMPF 

national feeling, of self-consciousness, but likewise to a 
sharper sensitivity to anti-national tendencies and that sort 
of elements. Conditions and persons who, in peace-time, 
are tolerated, indeed, often not even noticed, are, in periods 
of aroused national enthusiasm, not only rebuffed, but 
meet a resistance not seldom fatal to them. For example, 
there may be recalled the general spy scare which, with 
the outbreak of wars, when human passions are at the boil- 
ing point, suddenly erupts and leads to the most brutal, 
sometimes even unjust, persecutions, although everybody 
knows that the spy danger would be greater in the long 
years of peace-time, while for natural reasons not attracting 
the same amount of general attention, 
f For this very reason, the delicate instinct of the State 
parasites washed to the surface by the November events 
senses the possible destruction of their own criminal exist- 
ence in a rise to freedom of our nation, supported by a 
genial policy of alliance and the consequent inflaming of 
national passions. 

Thus it becomes comprehensible why government bodies 
in control of foreign policy since the year 1918 failed, and 
why the State's rulers almost always methodically worked 
against the true interests of the German nation. For what 
might at first glance seem unplanned showed itself on 
closer examination to be but the logical further pursuit of 
the course which the November Revolution of 1918 took 
quite openly for the first time. 

Of course, one must here differentiate between the respon- 
sible or rather the 4 should-be-responsible f leaders of 
our affairs of State; the average of our parliamentary 
politicasters, and the great, stupid mutton herd of our 
sheepishly tolerant people. 

The first know what they want. The second go along, 
either knowingly or because, at least, they are too cowardly 
to oppose unhesitatingly what has been recognized and felt 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 887 

to be detrimental. The rest, however, yield because of in- 
comprehension and stupidity. &lt; 

As long as the National Socialist German Workers' 
Party amounted only to a small and little-known society, 
problems of foreign policy could have, in the eyes of many 
followers, only subordinate significance. This was especially 
true because our movement above all fundamentally stood 
for, and must always stand for, the view that external 
freedom will not be handed down as a gift either from 
heaven or through some earthly power, but rather can be 
only the fruit of an inner exercise of force. Only the elimina- 
tion of the causes of our collapse, along with the destruction of 
those who exploit it, can lay down the premises for an external 
struggle for freedom. 

One can therefore understand if, from such points of view, 
the value of foreign-policy questions as compared with the 
importance of the young movement's domestic reform plans 
was disregarded in the early days. 

As soon, however, as the frame of the small, unimportant 
society spread and was finally sprung, and the young organ- 
ism acquired the importance of a great association, there arose 
also the need to define its attitude on questions of foreign- 
policy development. It was important to lay down princi- 
ples which not only did not contradict the basic conceptions 
of our conception of life, but which constituted an emana- 
tion of this mode of thinking. 

Precisely because of the lack of foreign-policy training 
in our people, there arises the young movement's obligation 
to impart to individual leaders as well as to the broad 
masses, by means of grand leading principles, a form of 
thought on foreign policy which is the presumption of any 
eventual practical achievement of preparations in foreign 
policy for the work of regaining our national freedom as 
well as a real sovereignty of the Reich. 

The most essential maxim and guiding principle which 



81 MEIN KAMPF 

must always shine before us in estimating this matter is that 
foreign policy, too, is only a means to an end, but the end 
must be exclusively the advancement of our own national- 
ity. No consideration of foreign policy can be guided by 
any point of view but this: Does it benefit our nation now or 
in the future, or will it be harmful to it? 
t This is the sole preconceived opinion permitted in dealing 
with this question. Partisan, religious, humanitarian, and all 
other points of view in general are completely beside the point. 



If, before the War, the task of German foreign policy 
was to guarantee the sustenance of our nation and its 
children on this globe through the preparation of ways 
which could lead to this goal, as well as the winning of the 
auxiliary forces necessary thereto in the form of suitable 
allies, then today it is the same, with only one difference: 
Before the War it was necessary to serve the preservation of the 
German nationality, having in mind a certain available force 
of the independent, free power State; today it is imperative 
first to restore to the people, in the form of the free power 
State, that strength which is the presumption for the later 
carrying-out of a practical foreign policy signifying the 
maintenance, promotion, and sustenance of our people for the 
future. 

In other words: The goal of a German foreign policy oj 

The conviction that foreign policy has nothing to do with 
'humanitarian' considerations is an old tenet of the Pan- 
German doctrine, though it has its advocates in every country. 
Like the maxim, 'business is business, 9 it severs interests from 
morality. Yet there is evidence to show that the violation of 
treaties, the suppression of helpless minorities, and the bom- 
bardment of defenseless cities has upon occasion greatly inter- 
fered with the success of the foreign policy of indicted nations. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 889 

today must be the preparation of the reconquest of freedom 
for tomorrow. 

Moreover, one thing above all must be kept in mind as a 
directive: A nation's chance of reconquering its independ- 
ence is not absolutely bound up with the integrity of a Slate 
territory, but rather with the existence of a never so small 
remnant of this nation and State which, having the necessary 
freedom, has it in its power to be not only the bearer of the 
spiritual communion of the entire nationality, but also the pre- 
Parer of the military struggle for freedom. 

If a people of one hundred million men, to protect the 
State's integrity, jointly tolerates the yoke of slavery, 
then that is worse than if such a State and such a people had 
been demolished and only a part of it could remain in 
possession of full freedom, of course on condition that this 
last remnant were filled with the sacred mission not only 
constantly to proclaim spiritual and cultural inseparability, 
but also to achieve the armed preparation for final liberation 
and the reuniting of the unhappy oppressed portions with 
the motherland. &lt; 

// should further be noted that the question of the regaining 
of lost portions of territory of a people and State is always in 
the first instance the question of regaining the political power 
and independence of the motherland; that consequently in such 



From the beginning Austria was the first important goal of 
the Nazi annexationists. Yet in 1933 this State was independ- 
ent, not merely by reason of the treaties signed with the vic- 
torious Allied powers after the War, but also by reason of the 
will of its government, which in this respect at least had the 
support of the majority of the Austrian people. Subsequently, 
however, the governments of France, Great Britain, and Italy 
issued a joint declaration dated February 17, 1934, which read 
as follows: 'The Austrian government has addressed itself to 
the governments of France, Great Britain, and Italy for the 



890 MEIN KAMPF 

a case the interests of the lost regions as compared with the salt 
interest of the regaining of the freedom of the main territory 
must be unhesitatingly set aside. For the liberation of op- 
pressed, since separated splinters of a nationality or province 
of a realm takes place, not on the basis of a desire of the op- 
pressed or a protest of those remaining behind, but through 
the instruments of power of those remnants of the former com- 
mon fatherland which have remained more or less sovereign. 

Consequently, the premise for the winning of lost terri- 
tories is the intensive advancement and strengthening of the 
remaining remnant State as well as the unshakable decision, 
slumbering in the heart, to consecrate at the given moment 
to the service of the liberation and unification of the whole 
nation that new force, forming itself through this process: 
that is, setting aside the interests of the separated regions 

purpose of securing their interpretation of the documents 
which had been prepared and transmitted to them in order to 
demonstrate German interference in the internal affairs of 
Austria. The discussions which have been conducted between 
the three governments on this subject have led to a unanimous 
decision concerning the necessity for maintenance of the inde- 
pendence and integrity of Austria, in consonance with the 
Treaties in force.' This statement was corroborated three times 
during the year following, and on April 14, 1935, the three 
powers, meeting in Stresa, solemnly confirmed it. Hitler con- 
fronted, therefore, not merely the unwillingness of Austrians 
themselves to surrender their independence, but also the veto 
of the three major European powers. Nevertheless energetic 
measures were adopted to undermine the Austrian government 
with propaganda, and to prepare ground for an uprising. Un- 
fortunately, the Dollfuss Cabinet was caught between two fires. 
On the one hand the Hcimwehren (Home Defense Guards), 
backed by Mussolini, insisted upon a Fascist dictatorship; on 
the other hand, the Socialists resented the abrogation of parlia- 
mentary government by Dollfuw and feared the succe* of 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 891 

aa opposed to the sole interest of winning for the remaining 
remnant that measure of political power and strength which 
is the premise for a rectification of the will of a hostile 
victor. For oppressed countries will not be brought back into 
the bosom of a common Reich by means of fiery protests, but by 
a mighty sword. 

To forge this sword is the task of the domestic political 
leadership of a people; to guard the work of forging and to seek 
comrades in arms is the task of the foreign-policy leadership. 



In the first volume of the work 4 Mein Kampf, 9 I analyzed 
the half-heartedness of our pre-War policy of alliance. Of 
the four roads to a future preservation of our nationality 
and its maintenance, the fourth and least favorable was 

the Heimwehren. Therewith the two forces to be relied on most 
in the event that resistance to Germany became necessary 
were arrayed against each other. Instead of attempting to 
solve the problem, Dollfuss ran away from it. While he was 
in Budapest, the Heimwehren announced that vigorous meas- 
ures were to be resorted to against the Socialists. On the fol- 
lowing day Socialist groups in various cities, acting without 
permission from their Party leaders, staged an uprising. This 
was easily put down, but the country was torn asunder by 
hatred and Nazi activity increased. Bombing outrages were 
frequent. On July 25, 1934, Dollfuss was assassinated by Nazi 
pulschists, and a rebellion fomented by German agents broke 
out in southeastern Austria. German troops waited at the 
border to take a hand, but Mussolini massed troops at the 
Brenner. The rebellion was crushed. 

Dollfuss was succeeded by Dr. Kurt von Schuschnigg. He 
continued to believe that Germany was on the verge of an 
upheaval which would lead to the downfall of Hitler and the 
restoration of the monarchy. Like most legitimists, he favored 
Anschluss with Germany, provided that at the same time the 



892 MEIN KAMPF 

chosen. In place of a healthy European land policy, a 
colonial and trade policy was adopted. This was particu- 
larly erroneous as it was then imagined that thereby a 
settlement by arms could be evaded. The outcome of this 
endeavor to wish to sit on all stools was the well-known fall 
'between them, and the World War was only the final bill 
presented to the Reich because of its unsuccessful leader- 
ship in foreign affairs. 

f The correct road would, even then, have been the third: 
strengthening of continental power by the winning of new soil 
and territory in Europe, precisely by which means an expan- 
sion through subsequent colonial regions would have ap- 
peared raised to the realm of what is, as a matter of course, 
possible. This policy, of course, would have been possible 
of realization only in alliance with England, or under such 

Habsburg claimant were restored to the throne. Accordingly 
he removed one by one the barriers to a complete understand- 
ing with Germany, though always emphasizing what he took 
to be the Catholic sentiment and monarchical convictions of 
Austria. The Heimwehren were dissolved for the sake of peace; 
and nothing was done to reconcile the Socialists with the 
regime. Of all this the Nazis took full advantage. Sympathizers 
held high positions in the government; German propaganda, 
subtler than at first, had little to fear from an inactive Austrian 
counter-propaganda; and Schuschnigg's recurrent doubts con- 
cerning the wisdom of his policies led to nothing more striking 
than a half-hearted endorsement of legitimist activity. 

The final outcome was dramatically swift. Following a con- 
ference (February, 1938) at Berchtesgaden, during the course 
of which the threat to send a German army into Austria was 
openly made, Schuschnigg was compelled to grant amnesty to 
imprisoned Nazi agitators, to put men friendly to Hitler in 
his Cabinet, and to grant the Party what amounted to freedom 
of action. He was now forced to realize that the Stresa guar- 
anties meant nothing. Mussolini protested against what had 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 893 

an abnormal development of instruments of military powei 
that for forty or fifty years cultural tasks would have been 
altogether pushed into the background. That would have 
been entirely justified. The cultural importance of a nation 
is almost always linked to its political freedom and inde- 
pendence; consequently, the latter is the premise for the 
existence of better establishment of the former. Hence no 
sacrifice to insure political independence and freedom can 
be too great. Whatever is withdrawn from general cultural 
matters by a disproportionate requirement of armament 
for the State is later restored in richest measure. Yes, one 
may say that, after such a concentrated exertion in the sole 
direction of the support of State independence by all means, 
a definite subsequent rise or compensation tends to ensue 
through an often really surprising flowering of the hitherto 
neglected cultural forces of a nationality. Out of the emer- 
gency of the Persian War grew the flower of the Periclean 
age, and over the woes of the Punic Wars the Roman State 
system began to dedicate itself to the service of a higher 
culture. 

To be sure, one cannot entrust to the power of decision 

been done, but took no further action. The British maintained 
an enigmatical silence. France, struggling with a major politi- 
cal crisis, sounded out Rome to no avail. On Friday, March 9, 
1938, German troops crossed the border, Schuschnigg abdi- 
cated, and Austria had ceased to exist as an independent power. 
The ex-Chancellor was imprisoned and his fate shrouded in 
secrecy. The next days brought scenes which eye-witnesses 
have attempted in vain to describe. 

Sparta is to be followed by Athens. It cannot be otherwise, 
since Germany is the home of a superior race, from which all 
culture springs. 'The center of the world/ wrote Mailer van 
den Bruck, 'must forever be found there where men grow 
conscious of being the center.' 



894 MEIN KAMPF 

of a majority of parliamentary dummies or incompetents 
such a thoroughgoing subordination of all other concerns of 
a nationality to the single task of the preparation of a con- 
templated passage at arms for the State's future security. 
The father of a Frederick the Great could do that, but 
the fathers of our Jewish variety of democratic parliament- 
ary nonsense cannot do it. 

For this reason alone, then, the armed preparation of the 
pre-War period for a conquest of soil and territory in Europe 
could be only of such magnitude that support by suitable 
allies could hardly be dispensed with.-*- 

Since, however, it was generally not desired to have any- 
thing to do with planned war preparation, the acquisition 
of territory in Europe was abandoned owing to the fact that 
instead of this there was devotion to colonial and trade 
policy, and an otherwise possible alliance with England was 
sacrificed, without, however, logically getting backing from 
Russia, and finally the government stumbled into the World 
War, abandoned by all except for the Habsburg hereditary 
evil. 



f Characterizing our contemporary foreign policy, k must 
be said that there is at hand no visible or even comprehen- 
sible line of direction in general whatsoever. If, before the 
War, they launched themselves mistakenly on the fourth 
road to follow even this, indeed, only indifferently, then the 
sharpest eye cannot distinguish any road since the Revolu- 
tion. Even more than before the War, all planned consider- 

These arguments are based on the claim that the Pan- 
Germans had seen the War coming and had actually predicted 
that it would break out during the summer of 1914. But it is 
maintained that their warnings went unheeded, and that their 
recipes for adequate preparedness were not adopted. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 895 

ation is lacking, unless it be an attempt to wreck even the 
last possibility of a resurrection of our people. 

A cold estimate of actual European relations of power 
gives the following resuh: 

For three hundred years the history of our continent 
was substantially determined by England's effort, by 
roundabout means of balanced, mutually binding relations 
of power among the European States, to maintain and 
secure the necessary protection in the rear for big British 
aims in world politics. -&lt; 

The traditional trend of British diplomacy, which in 
Germany has an analogy only in the Prussian army tradi- 
tion, was, since the achievements of Queen Elizabeth, 
deliberately aimed at preventing by all means the rise of any 
great European power above the level of the general scale of 
magnitudes, and, if necessary, to crush it by military means. 
The instruments of power which England undertook to 
apply in such a case were diverse, depending on the task in- 
volved or visualized ; the determination and will power for 
the stake, however, always the same. Yes, the more difficult 
England's situation became with the course of time, the 
more necessary to British imperial leadership did appear 
the maintenance of a condition of general paralysis of the 
individual State powers of Europe as a result of mutually 
opposed magnitudes. Particularly, the political separation 
of the former North American colonial territory led, in the 
ensuing period, to the greatest exertions for the main- 
tenance of a European cover in the rear, dependable under 
all circumstances. Hence, after the destruction of Spain 
and the Netherlands as great sea powers, the might of the 
English State concentrated itself against aspiring France, 
until finally, with the fall of Napoleon I, the hegemony 
danger to England of this most dangerous military power 
could be regarded as broken. 

The shifting of British statecraft toward Germany was 



196 MEIN KAMPF 

undertaken only slowly, not only because at first there was 
no visible danger to England owing to the lack of national 
unity of the German nation, but because public opinion, 
aroused propagandistically to a particular State objective, 
can only slowly grasp new goals. The sober knowledge of 
the statesman here appears transposed into emotional 
values which are not only more fruitful in particular 
operations, but also more stable with respect to duration. 
Consequently, after the achievement of a plan the states- 
man can devote his train of thought instantly to new ob- 
jects, whereas the mass can be emotionally transformed into 
an instrument of its leaders' new plan only through slow 
propagandist work. 

As early as the years 1870-71, however, England had 
formulated its new position. Vacillations which set in at 
times, owing to the world economic importance of America 
as England's rival, as well as to the development of Russia 
as a political force, were unfortunately not utilized by 
Germany, so that more and more there was bound to come 
about a reinforcement of the original trend of British 
statecraft. 

England saw in Germany that power whose commercial 
and hence world political importance, not least of all be- 
cause of its enormous industrialization, waxed to such a 
threatening extent that one could already balance the 
forces of the two States in the same fields. The 'peaceful 
economic 9 conquest of the world, which seemed to our State 
pilots to be the final wisdom of the highest emanation, 
became for English politicians the moral basis of her 
resistance to it. That this resistance clothed itself in the 
form of a comprehensively organized attack fully cor- 
responded, moreover, to the essence of a statecraft whose 
aims lay, not m the maintenance of a dubious world peace, 
but in the reinforcement of British world domination. That 
England simultaneously utilized all allies who could pos- 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 897 

sibly be considered in a military sense corresponded equally 
well to her traditional foresight in estimating an opponent's 
strength and to her insight into her own momentary weak- 
nesses. Hence one cannot characterize this as 'unscrupu- 
lousness,' because such a comprehensive organization of a 
war is not to be judged from heroic but from practical view- 
points. // is the business of diplomacy to see to it, not that a 
people falls heroically, but that it is preserved practically. 
Every road leading to this is, therefore, suitable, and its evasion 
must be marked as criminal neglect of duty. 

With the inner revolutionizing of Germany, the British 
concern with a threatening German world hegemony met 
an end which liberated British statecraft. 

Hereupon, however, England also no longer had any 
further interest in the complete obliteration of Germany 
from the European map. On the contrary, the most horrible 
collapse which occurred in the November days of 1918 con- 
fronted British diplomacy with a new situation, one at first 
not conceived as possible : 

t The British Empire fought for four and a half years to 
crush the alleged preponderance of a continental power. 
Now there suddenly occurred a fall which seemed to remove 
this power from the scene altogether. A lack of the instinct 
of self-preservation, even in its simplest form, now so 
showed itself that the European balance seemed unhinged 
by an event of hardly forty-eight hours: Germany destroyed 
and France the prime continental political power of Europe. 

The enormous propaganda which in this war supported, 
recklessly incited, and aroused the British people in all 
their deepest instincts and passions, now weighed like lead 
on the decisions of British statesmen. With the colonial, 
economic, and commercial crushing of Germany, the British 
war aim was achieved ; what went beyond this was a curtail- 
ment of British interests. England's enemies alone could 
profit from the wiping-out of Germany as a power State in 



898 MEIN KAMPF 

continental Europe. In the November days of 1918 and 
into midsummer of 1919, however, the changing of English 
diplomacy, which in this long war utilized the emotional 
forces of the broad masses more than ever before, was no 
longer possible. It was impossible from the point of view of 
the actual given situation of her own people, and was im- 
possible with respect to the disposition of the relations of 
military force. France had seized the initiative and could 
dictate to others: the one power, however, which in these 
months of haggling and negotiating could have brought 
about a change, Germany herself lay in the convulsions of 
domestic civil war, and over and over again announced, 
through the mouths of her so-called statesmen, her readiness 
to accept any dictate whatsoever. 

Now, if in international life a nation, as a result of a total 
lack of its own instinct of self-preservation, ceases to be a pos- 
sible 'active 9 ally, she tends to sink down to a slave people and 
her land to the fate of a colony. 

Precisely in order not to allow France's power to grow too 
great, participation in her hankerings for loot was England's 
sole possible form of action for herself. 

In reality England did not achieve her war aim. The rise 
of a European power above the balance of the European 
continental State system was not only not prevented, but 
was facilitated to a heightened degree. 

In the year 1914 Germany as a military State was wedged 
in between two countries one of which was equally, and the 
other more, powerful. In addition, there was the superior 
sea power of England. By themselves, France and Russia 
offered obstacles and resistance to every disproportionate 
development of German stature. The Reich's extraordinar- 
ily unfavorable geo-military situation counted as an added 
coefficient of security against over-great access of power 
to this country. The coastline especially, short and cramped, 
was from a military viewpoint unfavorable to a conflict with 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 899 

England, while the land front was comparatively extensive 
and open. 

The situation of France today is otherwise: militarily 
the first power, without a serious rival on the continent, 
practically guaranteed on its southern borders against 
Spain and Italy, guaranteed against Germany by the im- 
potence of our fatherland, its coastline along a wide front 
lying opposite the life nerves of the British Empire. Not 
only do English population centers constitute a worth- 
while goal for aircraft and long-distance batteries, but 
British commercial traffic lines would also be most un- 
favorably exposed to submarine activity. A U-boat war, 
based on the long Atlantic coast as well as on the no less 
extensive stretch of French frontier region on the Mediter- 
ranean coasts of Europe and North Africa, would have 
ravaging effects. 

Thus the fruit of the struggle against the development oj 
German power was politically the precipitation of French 
hegemony on the continent. The military result: the reinforce- 
ment of France as the prime power on land and the recogni- 
tion of the Union as co-equal sea power. Economically: the 
delivery of the chief spheres of British interest to her former 
allies. 

Just as England's traditional political goals desired and 
required more or less a Balkanization of Europe, so those 
of France did a Balkanization of Germany.** 

England's desire is and remains the prevention of the im- 
moderate rise of any continental power to world political im- 
portance; that is, the maintenance of a fixed balance of power 
relation among European States; for this seems to be the 
premise of British world hegemony. 

France's desire is and remains the prevention of the fostering 
of a self -contained German power, the preservation of a system 
of small German States balanced against each other in strength, 
without unified leadership, along with the occupation of (he left 



900 MEIN KAMPF 

bank of the Rhine, as essential to the creation and securing of 
her hegemony status in Europe. 

The ultimate goal of French diplomacy will always stand in 
opposition to the final tendency of British statecraft. 



f Whoever undertakes, from the above viewpoint, an 
estimate of the present possibilities of an alliance for Ger- 
many must reach the conviction that the last practicable 
tie remaining is only English support. However horrible 
the results of English war policy were and are for Germany, 
one must not ignore the view that there is today no longer a 
necessary English interest in crushing Germany, but that, 
on the contrary, England's desire must from year to year be 



These views, which Hitler may have absorbed from any one 
of a dozen nationalist writers, are undoubtedly in part correct. 
But they are also partly wrong; and that is why German efforts 
to sunder France from England after the War so often failed. 
For though the interests of the two nations were often diverse 
e.g., the task of defining spheres of influence in the Near East 
after the War was a serious problem the fact remains that 
England knew an attack from France was inconceivable, if 
for no other reason than that France could not afford to be 
hemmed in from two sides. On the other hand, England has 
never been able to feel certain that Germany would not 
attack that its professed policy of aggrandizement would 
regard treaties solemnly signed or pledges given. Therefore, 
though French hegemony on the Continent was distasteful 
to many in Britain, it was always known to be something quite 
different from German hegemony. Accordingly Englishmen 
may be more sympathetic to Germans than to Frenchmen in 
private life (and that matters a good deal), but they cannot 
identify the amenities of life with national interests. Cf. 
Spengler's discriminating treatment of the problem in Politische 
Schriften. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 901 

increasingly for a limitation of the unbounded French drive 
for hegemony. Now, alliance policies are not advanced 
from considerations of backward-looking discords, but rather 
fructified by a knowledge of past experiences. Experience, 
however, should now have taught us that alliances for the 
achievement of negative goals suffer from internal weak- 
nesses. National fates are solidly welded together only 
through a perspective of a common triumph, in the sense of 
common gains, conquests, in short, a joint expansion of 
power. 

How little foreign-policy-minded our people is can be 
most clearly seen from current press announcements con- 
cerning the greater or lesser 'friendship for Germany' of 
this or that foreign statesman, according to which such 
personalities, by the adoption of an alleged position towards 
our nation, are viewed as a special guaranty of a charitable 
policy towards us. This is entirely incredible nonsense, a 
speculation on the unique simple-mindedness of the average 
politicizing German Babbitt. &lt; No English or American or 
Italian statesman was ever 'pro-German. 9 Every English- 
man as a statesman is, of course, first of all an Englishman, 
every American an American, and no Italian will be found 
prepared to play any other politics than pro-Italian politics. 
Whoever, then, thinks of succeeding in concluding alliances 
with foreign nations on the basis of a pro-German sentiment 
of their leading statesmen is either a jackass or a fraud. 
The premise for the linking of national fates never lies in 
mutual respect or even congeniality, but in a perspective of 
mutual expediency for both contracting parties. That is, let 
us say, however invariably an English statesman pursues 
pro-English policies and never pro-German, quite definite 
interests of these pro-English policies can, for the most 
diverse reasons, duplicate pro-German interests. This, of 
course, need be the case only to a limited degree, and can in 
time turn into the exact opposite: the skill of a leading 



902 MEIN KAMPF 

statesman shows itself solely in exactly this, always to find for 
the achievement of his own needs in a specified period that 
partner who, for the advocacy of his own interests, must follow 
the same course. 

Practical application for today can, consequently, mean 
only: which States at the moment have no vital interest in 
French economic and military power achieving an absolute 
ruling position of hegemony by means of the total elimination 
of a German Middle Europe, yes, which States, owing to their 
instinct of self-preservation and their previous traditional 
political rule, would see in such a development a threat to their 
own future. 

Because we must at last become entirely clear about this: 
the German people's irreconcilable mortal enemy is and 
remains France. It does not matter who ruled or who will 
rule in France, whether Bourbons or Jacobins, Bonapartists 
or bourgeois democrats, clerical republicans or red Bolshe- 
viks, the final goal of her foreign-policy activity would 
always be an effort to hold the Rhine frontier and to 
guarantee this stream by means of a disintegrated and dis- 
membered Germany. 

England desires no German world power, but France desires 
no power at all called Germany: a really quite essential differ- 
ence. Today, however, we are not fighting for position as a 
world power, but we must struggle for the existence of our 
fatherland, our national unity, and for daily bread for our 
children. If, with this viewpoint, we want to keep our eyes 
open for European allies, then there remain practically two 
States: England and Italy. 

England does not want a France whose military might, 
unchecked by the rest of Europe, can undertake to push a 
policy which, one way or another, must some day cross 
English interests. England can never desire a France 
which, by possessing the enormous western European iron 
and coal deposits, has the premises of a threatening world 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 903 

economic status. And England, further, can never desire a 
France whose continental political status, thanks to the 
smashing of the rest of Europe, seems so secure that the 
resumption of a broader line of French world policy is not 
only made possible but actually forced. The Zeppelin 
bombs of another day could multiply a thousandfold any 
night ; the military predominance of France weighs heavy on 
the heart of the British Empire. 

But Italy, too, can and would not desire further rein- 
forcement of French superiority in Europe. Italy's future 
must always lie in a development territorially centered in 
the Mediterranean Basin. What Italy pursued in the 
War was not really a desire to see France made greater, but 
rather the object of giving a deathblow to her hated rivals 
in the Adriatic. Every added continental reinforcement of 
France means, nevertheless, a future restriction on Italy, 
and thereupon let nobody deceive himself kinship rela- 
tions among nations cannot at all eliminate rivalries. 

On the soberest and coldest reflection, it is today pri- 
marily these two States, England and Italy, whose most 
natural self-interests, at least in all essentials, do not oppose 
the conditions of existence of the German nation, indeed, 
to a certain degree are identical with them. 



f We must, assuredly, not overlook three factors in con- 
sidering such a possibility of alliance. The first is within 
ourselves, the other two are in the very States under con- 
sideration themselves. 

Is it at all possible for anybody to ally himself with present- 
day Germany? Can a power, which seeks in an alliance help 
for the achievement of its own offensive goals, tie itself to a 
State whose leaders for years present a picture of the most 
pitiful incompetence and pacifistic cowardice, and the 
greater part of whose population, because of democratic- 



904 MEIN KAMPF 

Marxist delusion, betrays its own nation and country in a 
way which cries to high Heaven? Can any power today, on 
the theory of an eventual joint struggle for common in- 
terests, hope to be able to establish a worth-while relation- 
ship with a State, if this-State obviously has neither courage 
nor desire to raise even a finger in defense of its own bare 
existence? Will any power for whom an alliance is and 
should be more than a treaty guaranty of the maintenance 
of a condition of slow decay, such as the fatal old Triple 
Alliance, obligate itself for better or worse to a State whose 
characteristic way of life consists only in cringing servility 
abroad and the shameful oppression of national qualities at 
home; a State which has no more greatness since, on the 
basis of its whole demeanor, it no longer deserves it; with 
governments which so little concern themselves with the 
respect of their own compatriots that abroad there is un- 
surpassable amazement at them? -4- 

No; a power which has respect for itself and which hopes 
for more from allies than provender for booty-hungry 
parliamentarians would not ally itself with contemporary 
Germany, yes, cannot do it. In our present unfitness for 
alliance lies, indeed, the deepest and final cause of the soli- 
darity of our despoilers. Since Germany never defends it- 
self, except by means of a couple of fiery 'protests' from 
our parliamentary cream, the rest of the world sees little 
reason to fight for our protection, and the good Lord does 
not make coward nations free on principle, as our patriotic 
societies would eagerly beg of Him, therefore even those 
States which have no direct interest in our complete de- 
struction have no choice but to participate in France's 
pillaging expeditions, if only in order, by such co-operation 
and participation in the pillage, at least to prevent the 
exclusive strengthening of France alone, 
f Secondly, there must not be overlooked the difficulty of 
undertaking, in countries hitherto inimical to us, a trans- 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 905 

formation of the great popular masses which have been in- 
fluenced in a definite direction by mass propaganda. One 
cannot for years portray a nationality as 'Hunnish,' 
'piratical/ 'vandalistic,' etc., and then discover the op- 
posite suddenly overnight and have the former enemy re- 
commended as tomorrow's ally. 

Even more attention must be paid to the third fact, 
which will be of essential importance for the formation of 
future European alliance relations. 

Slight as is England's interest, seen from a British State 
viewpoint, in a further destruction of Germany, that of 
international stock exchange Jewry in such a development 
is great. The disparity between official or, better, tradi- 
tional British statecraft and the controlling Jewish stock 
exchange powers reveals itself nowhere better than in the 
various positions adopted towards questions of English 
foreign policy. Jewish finance desires, in opposition to the 
interests of the British State's welfare, not only the thorough 
economic smashing of Germany, but also its complete political 
enslavement. The internationalization of our German 
economy, i.e., the passing of German labor power into the 
possession of Jewish world finance, can be carried out only 
in a politically bolshevized State. But if the Marxist shock 
troops of international Jewish stock exchange capital defin- 
itively break the spine of the German national State, this 
can be brought about only through friendly outside assist- 
ance. France's army, therefore, must pound the German 
State structure long enough until an internally wearied 

The Dawes Plan, which many looked upon at the time as a 
far-seeing plan to rescue German economy from collapse, was 
violently opposed by German ultra-nationalists as a 'deed to 
slavery.' The welcome accorded to Stresemann and others at 
Geneva was 'Jewish perfidy' and 'Masonic guile.' Stresemann 
was a Mason. 



906 MEIN KAMPF 

Reich succumbs to the shock troops of international world 
Jew finance. 

Hence the Jew today is the great agitator for the complete 
destruction of Germany. Wherever in the world we read about 
attacks on Germany, Jews are their fabricators; indeed, just 
as both before and during the War, the Jewish stock exchange 
and Marxist press deliberately added fuel to the hate for 
Germany, until State after State abandoned neutrality and 
entered the service of the World War coalition against their 
true national interests. 

The Jewish train of thought is, moreover, clear. The 
bolshevization of Germany, i.e., the extermination of the 
national folkish intelligentsia and the exploitation of Ger- 
man labor power in the yoke of world Jewish finance facili- 
tated thereby, is thought of solely as a preliminary to a 
further extension of this Jewish tendency to conquer the 
world. Thus, as so often in history, the mighty struggle 
within Germany is the great turning-point. If our people 
and our State fall victims to this bloodthirsty and money- 
thirsty Jewish tyrant over nations, then the whole world 
will fall into this polyp's net; if Germany frees itself from 
this embrace, this greatest of all dangers to the nations can 
be regarded as crushed for the entire world. 

Just as surely, then, as Jewry will utilize all its agitational 
work, not only to sustain the enmity of the nations against 
Germany, but, if possible, to intensify it, this activity 
parallels only to a small extent the true interests of the 
nations which it poisons. In general, Jewry will always 
fight within particular national bodies with those weapons 

This was a favorite Rosenberg contention. Upon what evi- 
dence it is supposed to rest cannot be determined. Nazis 
regarded the press of London as Jewish, Lord Beaverbrook 
being singled out as especially Hebraic. The press of France 
was a 'prostitute* that did the bidding of London. 



POLICy OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 907 

which seem most efficient and promise the greatest success 
in the light of the well-known mentalities of these nations. 
Consequently, in our body national, so jumbled from the 
viewpoint of blood, it uses in its struggle for power the 
pacifist ideological conceptions sprung from these more or 
less 'cosmopolitan/ in short, international, tendencies; in 
France it employs the well-known and well-understood 
chauvinism; in England, economic and imperial concep- 
tions; in short, it always utilizes the most essential char- 
acteristics exhibited by a people's mentality. Only when 
by such means it has added a certain luxuriant influence 
to its wealth of economic and political power does it slough 
off the hobbles of this transferred weapon and now equally 
advance the true inner intent of its will and struggle. It 
begins ever more quickly to destroy, until it thus trans- 
forms one State after another into a mass of ruins, on the 
basis of which shall later be established the sovereignty of 
the eternal Jewish empire. 

In England as well as in Italy the disparity between the 
conceptions of the better native statecraft and the will of world 
stock exchange Jewry is clear; indeed, sometimes it hits one 
in the eye. 

Only in France is there today more than even an inner 
unanimity between the plans of the Jew-controlled stock 
exchange and the desires of a chauvinistically oriented na- 
tional statecraft. In this very identity lies an immense danger 
for Germany. Exactly for this reason France is, and re- 
mains by far, the most terrible enemy. This people, which 
is constantly becoming more negrofied constitutes, by its tie 

That France was rapidly becoming a negro country seemed 
evident to many Germans, and quite particularly to Austrian 
nationalists. Thus Professor Hans Eibl (cf . his Vom Sinn der 
Gegenwart) declares that the r61e of Germany in the preserva- 
tion of world culture has now become immensely more im- 



90S MEIN KAMPF 

with the aims of Jewish world dominion, a grim danger for 
the existence of the European white race. For infection in the 
heart of Europe through negro blood on the Rhine cor* 
responds equally to the sadistic perverse vengefulness of 
this chauvinistic, hereditary enemy of our people, and to 
the ice-cold plan of the Jews thus to begin bastardizing 
the European continent at its core ana, through infection 
by inferior humanity, to deprive the white race of the 
foundations for a sovereign existence. 

What France, spurred by its own vengefulness, methodi- 
cally led by the Jew, is doing in Europe today, is a sin against 
the existence of white humanity, and some day will inspire 
against that nation all the avenging spirits of a knowledge 
which will have recognized race pollution as the original sin 
against mankind. 

For Germany, however, the French danger means an ob- 
ligation to subordinate all considerations of sentiment, and to 
reach out the hand to those who, threatened as much as we are, 
will not tolerate and bear France's drive toward dominion. 

In Europe there can be for Germany in the predictable 
future only two allies: England and Italy. 



Anybody who, glancing back, takes the trouble today to 
follow the foreign-policy control of Germany since the 

portant, since it is the bastion lodged between a bolshevistic 
East and the 'onward march of Africa.' French publicists 
tried in vain to persuade the Professor that his diagnosis of 
their racial characteristics was somewhat premature. 

The coming war against France will be justified because it 
must be the duty of the Germans, having seen the light, to 
protect Europe from Rassenschande. It may be added that 
the Germans also employed negro troops in Africa during the 
War, though they were unable to transport them to European 
battlefields. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 909 

Revolution, will, with respect to the continual and in- 
comprehensible collapse of our government, be able either 
only to hold his head in simple despair, or to begin an in* 
ternal struggle in flaming rebellion against such a regime. 
These actions have nothing at all to do with lack of under- 
standing; for the spiritual centaurs of the November parties 
contrived everything which would have seemed unthink- 
able to any thinking brain: they sued like lovers for France's 
favor. Yes, through all these years they tried again and 
again, with the touching simplicity of incorrigible dreamers, 
to curry favor with France; again and again they fawned 
before the 'great nation, ' and in every wornout trick of the 
French hangman immediately thought they could see the 
first sign of a visible change of attitude, i.e., of course, the 

Rathenau, acting on the advice of the British, sought during 
1922 to reach an understanding with the French. Meeting in 
Wiesbaden with Louis Loucheur, who represented French 
industry, he entered into a number of agreements which for 
the first time indicated that perhaps a more reasonable attitude 
towards the reparations problem might be arrived at through 
negotiation. It is noteworthy that as soon as the Nazis came 
to power efforts were made to profess friendship for France. 
Here Colonel von Papen had taken the lead. Anti-French 
passages in Mein Kampf were disavowed. It was hoped in 
Germany that Rightist groups would stage a revolution against 
the Third Republic, receiving whatever assistance from Ger- 
many might be needed. The date for this revolution was even 
fixed for December, 1936. Subsequently (1938) a friendship 
pact was negotiated. What relations have existed between 
French Right groups and the National Socialists cannot be 
determined. Pierre Flandin, upon whom rests the responsi- 
bility for permitting remilitarization of the Rhineland, also 
sent a telegram of felicitation to Hitler on the occasion of the 
Munich Peace. Such actions may be due to the fear of Bol- 
shevism which pervades a portion of French bourgeois society. 



910 MEIN KAMPF 

real wirepullers of our policy never cherished these idiotic 
ideas. For them (he wheedling of France was the natural 
means of sabotaging in this way all practical alliance policy. 
They were never confused about France's and her backers' 
objectives. What made them act in this way, as though 
they nevertheless believed honestly in the possibility of a 
change in German fate, was the sober realization that, in 
any other case, our people would probably have taken 
another road by itself. -4- 

It is, of course, hard even for us in the ranks of our own 
movement to admit England as a possible future ally. Our 
Jewish press always knows how to concentrate special hate 
against England, whereby so many good German jack- 
asses have so eagerly crawled into the snare set by the 
Jews, chattered about the 'reinforcing* of German sea 
power, protested against the theft of our colonies, recom- 
mended their reconquest, and thus helped to provide 
material which a Jewish scamp could then turn over to a 
member of his own tribe in England for practical propa- 
gandistic use. For the fact that what we have to struggle 

As a matter of fact the 'Jewish press' (which term stands for 
all liberal groups in post- War Germany) tried in every possible 
way to encourage budding signs of British sympathy. The 
attitude of British army men in the occupied areas was praised 
and utilized; the British ambassador to Berlin, Viscount 
D'Abernon, became a sort of semi-official adviser to the Ger- 
man government; and the difficulties involved in rebuilding 
the German navy and getting the colonies back were estimated 
so carefully that interest in these things was kept alive only 
by the nationalistic Arbeitsausschuss der deutschen Vcrbdnde, 
in which a great many future Nazis held membership. Every 
year brought increasingly large numbers of trade-union and 
liberal observers to Germany. These were sent back duly 
fortified with propaganda. On the other hand, it may be 
added that many German nationalists believed firmly that 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 911 

for today is not 'sea power, 1 etc., should gradually have 
dawned even in the heads of our bourgeois political simple- 
tons. The orientation of German national force on these 
goals, without the most fundamental preliminary securing 
of our position in Europe, was nonsense even before the 
War. Today such a hope belongs to those stupidities 
which, in the realm of politics, are labeled with the word 
crimes. 

It was really sometimes maddening to have to watch 
how the Jewish wirepullers managed to occupy our people 
with actually highly incidental matters, to drive them into 
demonstrations and protests, while in the same hour France 
tore piece after piece out of the carcass of our body national, 
and the foundations of our independence and autonomous 
existence were cut away. 

I must recall a special stalking horse which in these years 
the Jew rode with extraordinary cleverness: South Tyrol. 

Yes, South Tyrol. Where is our Babbitt in whose spiritual 
face there does not burn instantly the flame of holy rebel- 
lion for this cause? If I take up precisely this question at 
this point, it is not least of all in order to settle accounts 
with that most mendacious pack which has arrogated this 
matter unto itself, building on the forgetfulness and stu- 
pidity of our broad layers to fake a national rebellion, 
which is as especially remote from these parliamentary 
swindlers as is a respectable conception of property from a 
magpie. 

Britain wanted the Reich to rearm. Passages from public or 
private utterances by British diplomats and business men were 
freely quoted in certain circles as evidence of England's feeling 
that only a strong Germany could 'win allies.' In addition 
White Russian agents close to the Nazi Party were convinced 
that London would favor a vigorous German assault oo 
Bolshevism. 



91 S MEIN KAMPF 

At the start I would like to emphasize that, personally, 
I was one of those people who, when the fate of the South 
Tyrol was being settled, that is, beginning in August, 1914, 
and down to November, 1918, took up their posts where the 
practical defense of this region among others was taking 
place, that is, in the army. In those years I did my bit, not 
in order that South Tyrol should be lost, but in order that, 
just like every other German region, it should be preserved 
for the fatherland. 

t Those who did not do their bit then were the parliament- 
ary footpads, the whole politics-playing party mob. On the 
contrary, while we were fighting in the conviction that only 
a victorious outcome of the War alone would preserve this 
South Tyrol to German nationality, the gabblers of these 
Ephialteses agitated and incited against this victory, until 
finally the warring Siegfried received a stealthy stab in 
the back. Because the holding of the South Tyrol in German 
possession was, of course, not guaranteed by the mendacious 
inflammatory speeches of sharp parliamentarians on the 
Vienna Rathausplatz, or in front of the Munich Feldherrn- 
hatte, but only by the battalions of the fighting front. Whoever 
smashed them betrayed the South Tyrol, exactly as he did alt 
other German regions. 

Whoever believes today that he can solve the South 
Tyrolean question by protests, declarations, clubby pa- 
rades, etc., is either specially rascally or else a German 
Babbitt. 

One must be quite clear about the fact that the regaining of 
the lost regions will not come about through solemn appeals to 
the dear Lord or through pious hopes in a League of Nations, 
but only by force of arms. 

There remains then only the question of who is pre- 
pared to get back these lost regions by the defiant force 
of arms. 

As far as I am concerned personally, I could here guaran- 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 913 

tee with a clear conscience that I could still muster suf- 
ficient courage to participate in the victorious conquest of 
the South Tyrol at the head of any parliamentary shock 
troop which might be organized, consisting of parliamentary 
chatterers and other party leaders along with a batch of 
privy councillors. The Devil knows I would be glad if, for 
once, a couple of shrapnel shells suddenly exploded over 
the heads of one of those 'fiery' protest rallies. I think the 
cackling would hardly be more furious or the individual 
fowls' [Fcdervichs: poultry or literary gentry; untrans- 
latable pun] dash for safety ensue more precipitately were 
a fox* to break into a chicken coop than would such a 
splendid 'protest rally' take to its heels. 

But really the lowest thing about all this is the fact that 
these gentlemen themselves do not at all believe that they 
will be able to achieve anything whatsoever in this way. 
They realize personally better than anybody the impos- 
sibility as well as the innocuousness of all their pottering. 
They carry on in this way only because today it is, of course, 

Hitler was bitterly attacked at the time for his readiness to 
shower Mussolini with compliments. The question whether or 
not he was indifferent to the fate of the South Tyrolese there- 
fore became important, especially after the minority problems 
of the new Italy were aired before the League of Nations and 
the world generally voiced its disapproval of the way in which 
Germans, Croats, and Slovenes were being treated. Inside the 
Party itself there was some unconcealed disapproval erf a course 
which seemed to make light of these things. The issue was 
raised, for example, in a lawsuit which Hitler brought against 
Anton Drexler in 1926. One of the witnesses was a dissident 
Nazi chieftain who denounced the pro-Rome course of the 
Party, and cited Hitler as saying that he would visit Mussolini 
as soon as he could travel in state, 'with three automobiles.' 
The interest in his South Tyrol policy was so great that in 1926 
Hitler issued those portions of Man Kampf which deal with 



914 MEIN KAMPF 

easier to chatter about the rewinning of the South Tyrol 
than it once was to fight for its possession. Everybody does 
his bit: then we sacrificed our blood, and today this outfit 
sharpens its beak.^- 

t It is charming, moreover, to observe particularly how 
the Viennese legitimist circles punctiliously bristle their 
present labor of the reconquest of the South Tyrol. Seven 
years ago their magnificent and august Royal House, 
helped, it is true, by the villainous trick of a treacherous 
perjury, contrived for the victorious world coalition to 
secure, among other things, the South Tyrol. In those days 
these circles supported the policy of their treasonable dy- 
nasty and did not give a fig about the South Tyrol or any* 
thing else. Today, of course, it is easier to take up the fight 
for these regions, a fight, indeed, now being waged only 

this problem as a special brochure entitled, Die Stidtiroler Frage 
und das Deutsche Bundnis Problem (The South Tyrol Question 
and the German Problem of Alliances). Notwithstanding all 
this, German leaders in South Tyrol thought that the Anschluss 
of 1938 would mean separation from Italy for them. Not a few 
were arrested for demonstrating. An American journalist was 
told in Bolzano: 'The Fuhrer passed through here on his way 
to Rome, and he did not even look out the window.' 

Doubts concerning Mussolini were rampant in Nazi circles. 
Writing in the Volkischer Beobachter, Rosenberg expressed grave 
concern over the future of Fascism. This had not, he averred, 
solved the Jewish problem, and besides II Duce was under the 
influence of Toeplitz, a banker of Hebraic extraction. General 
Ludendorff said gruffly in the organ of the Tannenberg Bund 
that in case of war Italy would be a millstone round the neck 
of whatever country accepted her as an ally. Other Nazis 
looked upon II Duce as a kind of peacock, who had merely 
copied rather badly some aspects of Prussianism. 

Mussolini, for his part, did not mince words. There exist 
authentic records of conversations with notable German and 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 915 

with 'spiritual 9 weapons, and it is certainly always easier 
to talk oneself hoarse in some 'protest meeting' from 
some magnificent inner indignation and to get calloused 
fingers writing newspaper articles than, say, to blow up 
bridges, tap wires, and the like during the occupation of 
the Ruhr region. 

The reason why, in recent years, the 'South Tyrolean' 
question was made the key to German-Italian relations by 
certain very definite circles is quite ready to hand. Jews 
and Habsburg legitimists have the greatest interest in pre- 
venting a German alliance policy, which might some day lead 
to the restoration of a free German fatherland. This pottering 
about is undertaken now, not out of love for the South Tyrol 
for the latter is not helped but only harmed thereby but out 
of fear of some possible German-Italian accord. 

It is quite typical of the general mendaciousness and 
backbiting inclinations of these circles when, with icy 
coldness and brazenness, they present the matter as though 
somehow it was we who 'betrayed' the South Tyrol. 

Let this be said with complete clarity to these gentlemen : 

The South Tyrol was betrayed first of aU by every German 
of sound limbs who in the years iQi4~i8 did not stand some- 



Austrian statesmen in which he is heard deriding Hitler and 
expressing his boundless contempt for anti-Semitism and other 
Nazi practices. But the Rome-Berlin axis has come into being 
since. How sound that alliance is must remain an open ques- 
tion. After Austria had been occupied, Hitler addressed a 
telegram to the Duce saying, 'Duce, I will never forget this.' 
On the other hand, it has been pointed out by realists that 
Germany would be better served by reannexing Bolzano and 
Trieste than by fighting anew over Alsace-Lorraine. To date, 
however, the concessions Mussolini has made have cost the 
Germans little and given them much. As long as this benevo- 
lence continues, the axis ought to last. 



916 MEIN KAMPF 

where at the front and put his services at the disposal of his 
fatherland; 

secondly, everybody who, in those years, did not help fortify 
the resistive capacities of our body national for maintaining 
the War and to solidify the endurance of our people to carry 
through to the end of this fight; 

thirdly, everybody betrayed the South Tyrol who participated 
in the outbreak of the November Revolution whether di- 
rectly in deed or indirectly through cowardly tolerance of deeds 
and thus smashed the one weapon whereby the South Tyrol 
might have been rescued; 

and, fourthly, the South Tyrol was betrayed by all those 
Parties and their supporters who put their signatures to the 
treaties of shame of Versailles and St. Germain. 

Yes, indeed, my brave protestants of the word, that is 
the way matters really stand ! 

Today I am guided by the sober knowledge that one does not 
regain lost territories by means of the glibness of tongue of 
sharp parliamentarian gabblers, but that one must regain them 
by means of a sharp sword, that is, through a bloody struggle. 

To be sure, I do not hesitate to declare that, now that the die 
is cast, I not only regard the regaining of the South Tyrol by 
war as impossible, but personally I would reject it in the 
conviction that, on this question, it would not be possible to 
achieve the burning national enthusiasm of the entire German 



This is an interesting and characteristic bit of dialectic. 
Hitler says that he need not protest against the seizure of 
South Tyrol because he did not sign the Treaty of St. Germain. 
The main issue the treatment of the German minority is 
thus avoided, and the debate is transferred to the terrain of 
responsibility for the loss of the war. The fact that the protest 
was concerned, not with the reconquest of South Tyrol, but 
with the duty of the League of Nations to enforce the statutes 
governing minority rights, thus passes unnoticed. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 917 

people to an extent which would constitute the precondition for 
victory. On the contrary, I think that, if some day this blood 
is to be risked, it would be a crime to set the stakes at 200,000 
Germans while approximately more than 7,000,000 languish 
under alien rule and the main artery of the German people 
flows through the playground of black African hordes. 

If the German people wants to terminate a condition of 
threatening extermination in Europe, then it must not fall into 
the errors of the pre-War period and make enemies of every- 
body in the world, but it must recognize the most dangerous 
enemy in order to strike him with all its concentrated force. 
And if this victory is gained through sacrifices at other points, 
then our nation's posterity will, for all that, not condemn us. 
The more brilliant the success springing therefrom, the more 
highly will it know how to appreciate the terrible need and the 
deep woes and the bitter determination born of them. 

What must guide us constantly today is the fundamental 
insight that the regaining of lost imperial territories is 
primarily a question of regaining the political independence 
and power of the motherland. 

To realize and secure this through a genial policy of al- 
liance is the first external task of any strong leadership of 
our State system. 

We National Socialists, however, must particularly guard 

The occupation of the Rhineland made France the enemy. 
This situation could only be changed, the ultra-nationalists 
believed, by declaring war on France. During the Ruhr in- 
vasion this idea made such headway in Germany that the 
thought of changing from passive to active resistance was 
popular even in high official circles. General Ludendorff was 
invited to come to Berlin and express an opinion. He declared 
with emphasis that any thought of an active military campaign 
against France was utter folly. Therewith the discussion 
ceased. Evacuation of the Rhineland was brought about 
through diplomatic action. 



918 MEIN KAMPF 

ourselves against being taken in tow by our Jew-bossed 
patriots of the word. Alas, if our movement, too, instead oj 
preparing the battle, were to go in for protests/ 

Germany fell through the fantastic conception of a Nibelungen 
league with the Habsburg State cadaver. Fantastic senti- 
mentality in dealing with actual foreign-policy possibilities is 
the best means of preventing our resurrection.-* 



At this point I must also quite briefly take up those ob- 
jections which apply to the three questions raised above; 
that is, to the questions of whether anybody will 

firstly, make any alliance with present-day Germany with its 
visible weakness obvious to all eyes; 

secondly, whether hostile nations appear capable of such a 
transformation; and 

thirdly, whether the supposed influence of Jewry is not 
stronger than all knowledge and good will and consequently 
will frustrate and nullify all plans. 

f I think I have sufficiently discussed half of the first 
question. Naturally nobody will ally himself with present- 
day Germany. No power in the world will venture to link 
its fate to a State whose governments can but destroy all 
confidence. As for the attempt of many of our compatriots 
to condone the actions of the government because of the 
prevalent wretched mentality of our people at the time, or 
to let that pass as an excuse, one must adopt the sharpest 
attitude against this. 

True, the characterlessness of our people for the last six 
years has been deplorable, the indifference to the weightiest 
affairs of the nation really crushing, but cowardice of some 
cries to high Heaven. It is, however, never to be forgotten 
that this, nevertheless, refers to a people which only a few 
years earlier offered the world the most admirable example 
of human virtues. Beginning with the August days of 1914 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 919 

until the end of the great conflict of nations, no people of 
the earth displayed greater manly courage, tenacious 
persistence, and patient endurance than our German people, 
become today so piteous. No one will want to suggest that 
the shame of our day is characteristic of the essence of our 
nation. What we have to endure in and around us today is 
only the appalling, maddening, and dementing influence 
of the act of perjury of November 9, 1918. Here, above all, 
applies the poet's saying that evil begets evil. In this 
period, too, however, the sound basic elements of our people 
have not been wholly lost, they only slumber unawakened 
in the depths, and sometimes one may see, radiantly shining 
like summer lightning in a darkling firmament, virtues 
which a later Germany will some day recall as the first omen 
of a dawning convalescence. More than once there have 
been thousands upon thousands of young Germans with the 
self-sacrificing determination once again as in 1914 freely 
and gladly to bring their young lives as sacrifices to the 
altar of the beloved fatherland. Once again millions of 
men are assiduously and diligently laboring as though there 
had never been the disturbances of a revolution. The smith 
stands again at his anvil, the peasant walks behind his plow, 
and the scholar sits in his study, all equally toiling and 
endowed with the same devotion to their duty. 

Oppressions from the side of our enemies no longer meet, 
as once, justifying laughter, but bitter and woe-begone 
faces. Unquestionably a great change in sentiment has 
taken place. 

If all this does not yet even today express itself in a re- 
birth of the political power idea and our national instinct 
for self-preservation, then the blame is on those who, less 
by the grace of Heaven than by self-appointment, have 
ruled our nation to death since 1918. 

Yes, when anyone complains about our people today, he 
should pose the question: What has been done to improve 



920 MEIN KAMPF 

it? Is the scant support given by the people to the decisions 
of our governments which in reality barely existed 
only a sign of our meager national life-force, or is it not 
rather a sign of complete failure in dealing with a valuable 
asset? What have our governments done to reimplant again in 
this people the spirit of proud self-respect, manly defiance, and 
wrathful hate? *+ 

When, in the year 1919, the peace treaty was imposed 
on the German people, one would have been justified in 
hoping that the cry for German freedom would be power- 
fully promoted through this very instrument of boundless 
oppression. Peace treaties whose demands are a scourge to a 
people not infrequently beat the first drum roll for a coming 
rebellion. 

What might have been done with the peace treaty of 
Versailles! 

How could this instrument of boundless extortion and 
shameful abasement have become, in the hands of a willing 
government, a means of whipping up national passions to 
the boiling point! How, by means of the genial propa- 
gandistic utilization of these sadistic atrocities, could a 
people's indifference be raised to indignation, and indigna- 
tion to the most blazing anger! 

t How every one of these points could have been burned 
into the brain and feeling of this nation until, finally, in 
the heads of sixty million men and women the same sense 
of shame and the same hate would have become a single 
fiery sea of flames, out of whose glow a steely will would 
have risen and a cry forced itself: 

We want arms once morel 

Yes, such a treaty of peace could do that. In the bound- 
lessness of its oppression, in the shamefulness of its de- 
mands, rests the greatest propaganda weapon for the 
re-arousing of the dormant life spirits of a nation. 

But for that, of course, everything, beginning with the 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 921 

child's primer down to the last newspaper, every theater 
and every movie, every billboard and every bare wall, must 
be placed at the service of this single great mission, until 
the prayer of fear of our present-day parlor patriots, ' Lord 
deliver us! 9 changes in the mind of the smallest child to the 
burning plea: 'Almighty God, bless our arms; be just as Thou 
always wert; judge now, whether we deserve freedom; Lord, 
bless our battle/' 

Everything was shirked and nothing was done. 

Then who will be surprised if our people is not what it 
should be and could be? If the rest of the world sees in us 
only a handyman, an obsequious dog, who thankfully licks 
the hands which have just beaten him? 

Our capacity for an alliance is certainly burdened today 
by our people, but most heavily by our governments. 
They, in their depravity, are guilty of the fact that after 
eight years of the most boundless oppression there exists so 
little will to freedom. 

Just as intimately as an active alliance policy is linked 
to the necessary evaluation of our people, so is this evalua- 
tion again conditioned by the existence of a government 
power which does not seek to be a handyman for foreign 
States, not a taskmaster curtailing its own power, but 
rather the herald of the national conscience. 



The German government did whatever lay in its power to 
encourage ideas of resistance. It declared the anniversary of 
the Treaty of Versailles a day of mourning; it encouraged ef- 
forts to prove that Germany was not morally responsible for 
the War; and it financed, by every means at its disposal, all 
movements that seemed to promise a recrudescence of the 
ancient fighting spirit. Unfortunately, it did little to dramatize 
or popularize the form of government under which the people 
lived. Constant bickering between the parties took the place 
of a common joy in truly remarkable achievements. 



922 MEIN KAMPF 

But should our people have a State leadership which sees 
its mission thus, not six years will elapse before a valiant 
Reich foreign-affairs leadership stands at the disposal of 
an equally valiant will of a freedom-hungry people. 



The second objection, the great difficulty of the trans- 
formation of hostile nations into friendly allies, can be well 
answered thus: 

The general anti-German psychosis inspired in other 
countries by war propaganda continues to exist, necessarily, 
as long as the German Reich does not, through re-establishing 
a German witt to self-preservation apparent to all, again reveal 
the characteristics of a State which sits at the general European 
chessboard and with which others can play. 
Only when the unconditional guaranty of a possible fit- 
Germany's restoration to a place of honor in the society of 
nations began during the Ruhr invasion, when the prevalent 
feeling of bitter antipathy gradually changed to one of sym- 
pathy. Later on, through the efforts of Stresemann and 
Wilhelm Marx, cordial good will replaced the defiant hatred 
of yore. The Brtining administration, waging a desperate 
battle for justice and bread, transformed the Anglo-Saxon 
world into a pro-German camp. In retrospect the newspapers 
of the United States for the years 1930-1932 look like German 
propaganda sheets. In the meantime German achievement in 
aviation, science, business, art and literature was more and 
more widely acclaimed. Museums began to display the works 
of modern German painters, thitherto unknown; the novels 
of Thomas Mann, the art of the theater as displayed by Max 
Reinhardt and others, and the standards set by German con- 
ductors and musicians, gave Germany a position of leadership 
in these fields; and the popularity of travel in the fatherland 
gave tens of thousands insight into Germany's problems while 
they were familiarizing themselves with the German landscape. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 923 

ness for alliance appears to be present in government and 
people can this or that power, moved by parallel interests, 
think of reconstructing public opinion by propagandist 
activity. Even this requires, of course, years of continuous 
adroit labor. In exactly this requirement of a long duration 
of time for the altering of popular sentiment lies reason for 
cautiousness in undertaking it, i.e., nobody will launch 
such an activity if he is not convinced without reservation 
of the value of such labor and of its future fruits. Nobody 
will want to alter a nation's spiritual orientation because 
of a more or less clever foreign minister's empty bragging 
without having a tangible guaranty of the real value of a 
new orientation. Otherwise this would induce a complete 
shattering of public opinion. The most dependable assur- 
ance for the possibility of a future alliance with a State, 
however, is likewise based, not on the bombastic oratorical 
style of individual government members, but rather on the 
obvious stability of a definite, apparently expedient govern- 
mental tendency, as well as in an analogously oriented 
public opinion. The belief in this will be all the more solid, 
the greater the visible activity of a government power is 
in the field of the propagandistic preparation and support 
of its work, and the more fanatically, on the other hand, the 
will of public opinion reflects itself in the tendency of the 
government. 
A nation, then, will be regarded as fit for alliance if (in our 

Spengler wrote (in Zur Weltlage) : ' It has been proved again 
and again that mass-meetings and class-conscious political 
parties are not schools which the shaper of a foreign policy can 
attend with impunity. France owes its great successes to the 
fact that all its leading men were trained in St. Petersburg dur- 
ing the period of the entente cordiale. Diplomacy is a trade by 
itself, which one must not confuse with war, business, or party 
politics. 9 



924 MEIN KAMPF 

case) government and public opinion equally fanatically 
proclaim and advocate the will to struggle for freedom. This, 
then, is the first presumption for beginning the transforma- 
tion of public opinion in other States, which, because of 
their understanding of their very own interests, are willing 
to march next to the partner who seems to them appropriate 
to these interests, that is, to make an alliance. 

But there is one thing more in this connection : Since the 
transformation of a definite national spiritual constitution 
demands hard work in itself and cannot at first be understood 
by many, it is simultaneously a crime and a stupidity to give 
by one's own faults opposing elements weapons for counter- 
efforts. 

It must be understood that it will necessarily take some 
time before a people has thoroughly grasped the inner plans 
of a government, inasmuch as proclamations cannot be 
published concerning the final end-goals of a particular 
preparatory political work, but only the blind faith of the 
masses or the intuitive insight of the intellectually superior 
layers of leadership can be counted on. Since many people, 
however, do not possess this clairvoyant political sixth 
sense and prophetic gift, but explanations cannot be of- 
fered for political reasons, a section of the intellectual 
leadership will always oppose new tendencies which, be- 
cause of their opaqueness, are likely to be appraised as 
mere experiments. In this way the opposition of timid 
conservative elements is awakened. 

Particularly for this reason it is, however, a matter of 
the highest duty to take care that all usable weapons pos- 
sible be taken from the hands of such disturbers of the pre- 
paration of the road to mutual understanding, especially 
since, as in our case, there are involved anyway only the 
quite unrealizable, purely fantastic babble of windy parlor 
patriots and Babbitty coffee-house politicians. Because, 
on quiet reflection, nobody will really care to dispute that 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 925 

yelling for a new navy, the reconquest of our colonies, etc., 
is really twaddle possessing not even a notion of practical 
execution. The way in which these most senseless effusions 
of the partially harmless, partially insane, protest strug- 
gles, which are always secretly serviceable to our mortal 
enemy, are politically exploited in England may not be 
called favorable to Germany. Thus we wear ourselves out 
in harmful little demonstrations against God and all the 
world and forget the first principle of every success, namely: 
whatever you do, do it whole-heartedly. While beefing against 
five or ten States, the concentration of the whole will power and 
physical force for a blow at the heart of our most execrable 
enemy is neglected and the possibility of reinforcement for this 
settlement of accounts by means of an alliance is sacrificed.^ 

We may suffer many bitter woes. But this is far from being 
grounds for abandoning reason and, with senseless howls, 
squabbling with all the world, instead of standing up with 
concentrated force against the most deadly enemy. 

Furthermore, the German people has no moral right to 
blame the rest of the world for its woes as long as it does not 
k*ing to book the criminals who sold and betrayed their awn 



This 4 concentration ' is one of the great reasons for the success 
to date of Nazi foreign policy . An objective is agreed upon. The 
relationship between the end to be reached and the general 
European situation is then carefully ferreted out. Thus Hitler 
waited until Mussolini was up to his ears in Ethiopia and Spain 
and Lord Halifax was breeding doves of peace, and then an- 
nexed Austria. The Czechoslovakia destiny was boiled down, 
in the final analysis, to the question whether Dr. Benes was to 
remain in office. By comparison Mussolini has so far appeared 
to disadvantage. He made a frontal assault on Ethiopia. He 
assumed that the whole Spanish army would support Franco, 
and thus became involved in a war lasting more than two and 
a half years. 



926 MEIN KAMPF 

country. It is not really when, from a distance, we scold and 
protest against England, Italy, etc., but let walk among us the 
ruffians who, in the pay of hostile war propaganda, took from 
us our arms, broke our moral backbone, and jobbed the 
crippled Reich for thirty pieces of silver. 

The enemy is doing only what might have been foreseen. 
We should have learned from his attitude and his actions. 

Whoever will completely fail to rise to the height of such 
a view, however, may finally reflect that there then remains 
only renunciation, because then any alliance policy dis- 
appears for all the future. Because if we will not ally our- 
selves with England, owing to the fact that she stole col- 
onies from us, or with Italy, because she has the South 
Tyrol, with Poland or Czechoslovakia on general principles, 
then there remains nobody else in Europe but France, 

It can hardly be doubtful whether this serves the German 
people. It remains doubtful only whether such a view is 
represented by a simple-minded dunce or by a rapacious 
bandit. 

When it comes to leaders, incidentally, I always believe 
in the latter. 

Thus, in so far as human judgment can tell there can 
very well come about a transformation in the soul of 
hitherto hostile individual nations, whose true interests 
in the future will have a basis similar to ours, if the domestic 
power of our State, as well as the obvious will for the de- 
fense of our existence, makes us again appear to have value 
as an ally and, furthermore, if the opponents of such a 

The idea that the statesmen of the Republic were in the pay 
of foreign governments appears to have originated with Hugo 
Stinnes, the Westphalian magnate and speculator. Right radi- 
cal groups emphasized particularly the assumed venality of 
Stresemaim. Even otherwise reputable conservative journals 
echoed these charges, for the sake of their propagandist^ effect. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 927 

coining alliance with nations heretofore hostile to us are not 
again given food for their activity because of our own in- 
eptitude or even criminal actions. 



t The third objection is the most difficult to answer. 

Is it conceivable that the representatives of the real 
interests of the nations which might enter an alliance could 
realize their plans against the will of the Jewish mortal 
enemy of free folk States and national States? 

Can the forces for example, traditional British state- 
craft still break the destructive Jewish influence or 
not? 

This question, as we have already said, is very hard to 
answer. It depends on too many factors for a conclusive 
judgment to be given. One thing is certain: In one State 
the existing State power can be regarded as so solidly stabilized, 
and so unconditionally at the service of national interests, that 
we can no longer speak of a really effective blocking of political 
needs by international Jewish forces. 

The struggle which Fascist Italy is carrying on, perhaps at 
bottom unconsciously (although personally I do not think this 
is the case), against the three main weapons of Jewry is the 
best omen that, if only indirectly, the fangs will be torn out of 
this super-State power. The prohibition of Masonic spcret 
societies, the persecution of the super-national press as well 

Oddly enough, there is no mention here of 'international 
finance. 1 To have spoken of it would, indeed, have meant being 
guilty of a certain tactlessness, since II Duce's foremost service 
, to his people undoubtedly lay in the skill with which he made 
foreign investors believe that Italy was a going concern. 
Current quotations for Italian bonds are still comparatively 
high. Milan obligations sold (February, 1939) at four times the 
price asked for Berlin obligations. Masonry has always been an 



928 MEIN KAMPF 

as the continuous undermining of international Marxism, 
and, on the other hand, the steady fortifying of the Fascist 
State conception, will, in the course of years, enable the Fascist 
government to serve the interests of the Italian nation in- 
creasingly, without concern for the hissing of the Jewish world 
hydra. 

The matter is more difficult in England. In this country 
of 'the freest democracy' the Jew still underhandedly dic- 
tates to public opinion almost without hindrance. And 
nevertheless here, too, there is proceeding a continuous 
struggle between the representatives of British State 
interests and the champions of a Jewish world dictator- 
ship. 

How sharply these antitheses sometimes crash against 
each other could be most clearly seen for the first time after 
the War in the different positions taken on the Japanese 
question, on the one hand, by British State leadership, and, 
on the other, by the press. 

Immediately after the end of the War the old American- 
Japanese mutual antagonism again began to manifest 
itself. Naturally, the great European world powers could 
not remain indifferent to this newly threatening danger of 



inconsequential factor in Italy, despite some rumors to the 
contrary. The 'international press* and Mussolini have seldom 
been friendly, the reason being censorship. It would hardly do 
to enumerate all the American 'Aryan ' reporters who have been 
propelled out of Italy. Mussolini is a convert from interna- 
tional Marxism. During 1938, the Quirinal revised its attitude 
toward the Jews. These were now considered a menace to the 
prosperity of the country, and a number of laws on the subject 
were passed. The Vatican expressed its disapproval of these 
measures, and the most pro-Fascist of the Italian Cardinals 
denounced them as indicative of heresy. The average Italian 
hook his head in amazement. 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 929 

war. All the kinship connections, however, could not pre- 
vent a certain feeling of envious concern in England for the 
growth of the American Union in all fields of international 
economic and power politics. A new mistress of the world 
seemed to be growing out of the former colonial country, 
the child of the great mother. It is understandable if 
England today re-examines her former alliances in anxious 
disquiet and if British statecraft stares with dread toward 
a time when it will no longer be said : 

4 England overseas, 1 but 'the seas for the Union.' 

The gigantic American State Colossus, with its enormous 
wealth of virgin soil, is more difficult to attack than the 
wedged-in German Reich. If some time here, too, the dice 
shall roll for a final decision, England would be doomed, 
were she to stand alone. Hence they anxiously reach out 
for the yellow fist and cling to an alliance which, viewed 
racially, is perhaps irresponsible, but which, nevertheless, 
politically offers the sole possibility of reinforcing the 
British world position in the face of the aspiring American 
continent. 

While, then, English State leadership did not, despite 
the joint struggle on the battlefields of Europe, wish to 
decide to relax the alliance with its Asiatic partner, the 
entire Jew press fell on this alliance from behind. &lt; 
t How can the organ of a Northcliffe, the loyal shield- 
bearer of the British struggle against the German Reich, 
now suddenly practice disloyalty and take its own course? 

The destruction of Germany was not an English, but 
primarily a Jewish, interest, just as today, too, a destruc- 
tion of Japan serves British State interests less than the 

These reflections are copied, for the most part, from the 
Dearborn Independent, Mr. Henry Ford's newspaper. Much of 
the anti-Semitic propaganda once disseminated by this journal 
is still current in Germany. 



930 MEIN KAMPF 

far-reaching desires of the leaders of the projected Jewish 
world empire. While England wears itself out maintaining 
its position on the globe, the Jew organizes his attack for 
the conquest of the same. 

He sees the contemporary European States already as 
powerless tools in his hand, whether through the indirect 
means of so-called Western Democracy, or in the form of 
direct rule through Russian bolshevism. Yet it is not only 
the old world which he regards as thus ensnared, but the 
same fate threatens the new, also. Jews are the regents 
of the stock exchange power of the American Union. Every 
year they manage to become increasingly the controlling 
masters of the labor power of a people of 120,000,000 souls; 
one great man, Ford, to their exasperation still holds out 
independently there even now. 

With rapacious cleverness they knead public opinion and 
form from it the instrument of a struggle for their own 
future. 

Already the greatest heads of Jewry envisage the ap- 
proach of the fulfillment of the hereditary slogan of the 
great devouring of the nations. 

Within this great herd of denationalized colonial regions, 
a single independent State could, at the last moment, still 
undo the entire job. Because a bolshevist world could 
survive only if it included everything. 

If only one State remains standing in its national power 
and greatness, the world empire of Jewish satrapies would 
and must, like every tyranny on the globe, succumb to the 
power of the national idea. 

The Jew knows only too accurately that, owing to his 
millennium of adaptation, he has it well within his power 
to undermine European peoples and to train them to be 
sexless bastards, only he would hardly be in a position to 
subject an Asiatic national State like Japan to this fate. 
Today he can ape Germans and English, Americans and 



POLICY OF ALLIANCE AFTER THE WAR 931 

French, but he has no bridges to the yellow Asiatics. 
Therefore, he strives to break the Japanese national State 
by the power of existing similar structures, to finish off 
the dangerous opponent before the last State power is 
transformed in his hands into a despotism over defenseless 
beings. 

He dreads a Japanese national State in his millennial 
Jew empire, and therefore wishes its destruction in advance 
of the founding of his own dictatorship. 

Therefore, he is now inciting the nations against Japan, 
as against Germany, and it can happen that, while British 
statecraft still tries to build on the alliance with Japan, the 
British-Jewish press already demands struggle against the 
ally and prepares the destructive war under the proclama- 
tion of democracy and the battle cry: Down with Japanese 
militarism, and imperialism. 

Thus insubordinate has the Jew now become in England. 

The struggle against this Jewish world danger will, 
moreover, also start at this point. 

And again precisely the National Socialist movement 
has its mightiest tasks to fulfill : 

// must open the eyes of the people concerning foreign na- 
tions and must over and over again recall who is the real 
enemy of our present world. In place of the insane hate for 
Aryans f from whom almost anything at all can separate us, 
people to whom, however, we are united by common blood or 
the main lines of a related culture, it must condemn to general 
wrath the evil enemy of humanity as the true creator of all 
suffering. 

But it must see to it that, at least in our country, the most 

The rivalry between Japan and Russia over 'spheres of 
influence' in China indicates to Hitler that Judaism is bent on 
undermining the healthy structure of the Japanese State. Japan 
was regarded by White Russians as a possible ally. 



932 MEIN KAMPF 

deadly enemy is recognized and that the struggle against him, 
like an illuminating sign of a brighter epoch, also shows to 
the other nations the road to the salvation of a struggling Aryan 
humanity. 

For the rest, may Reason be our leader, Will our might. 
The sacred duty to act thus gives us determination, and our 
highest protector remains our faith.-* 



CHAPTER XIV 

EASTERN ORIENTATION 
OR EASTERN POLICY 



THERE are two reasons which induce me to subject the 
relations of Germany to Russia to a special examina- 
tion: 

(1) In this case we are concerned with perhaps the most 
decisive matter of German foreign affairs as a whole; and 

(2) this question is also the touchstone of the political 
capacity of the young National Socialist movement to 
think clearly and to act correctly. 

I must confess that sometimes the second point especially 
fills me with anxious concern. Since our young movement 
gets its membership material, not from the camp of the 
indifferent, but chiefly from very extreme views of life, it is 
only too natural if these men are, in the field of understand- 
ing foreign affairs as well as elsewhere, first burdened with 
the prejudices or narrow comprehension of the circles to 
which they previously belonged politically and by the views 
of life of those circles. This does not apply at all exclusively 
to him who comes to us from the left. On the contrary. 
However harmful his previous information on such problems 
may have been, in not a few cases it was at least again 
partially balanced by a surviving stock of natural and 



934 MEIN KAMPF 

healthy instincts. Then it was necessary only to replace 
the earlier forced influence by a better attitude, and one 
may very often regard as the best allies the instincts still 
available and healthy in themselves and an impulse toward 
self-preservation. 

On the other hand, it is much harder to lead to clear 
political thinking a man whose previous training in this 
field was not only entirely without any reason and logic, but 
who has sacrificed, in addition to everything else, even the 
last bit of natural instinct on the altar of objectivity. It is 
precisely the members of our so-called intelligentsia who 
are the most difficult to bring to a really clear and logical 
advocacy of their interests and the interests of their people. 
They are not only burdened with a formal dead weight of 
the most senseless notions and prejudices, but they have, in 
addition, to make matters even worse, lost and abandoned 
every healthy impulse toward self-preservation. The 
National Socialist movement, too, must stand its ground 
with these people, a difficult job because, despite complete 
incompetence, they unfortunately are not infrequently 
possessed of extraordinary conceit, which leads them to 
look down upon other, generally even healthier, people, 
without any inner justification. Supercilious, arrogant 
know-it-alls without any capacity for testing and weighing, 
which, however, must be recognized as the pre-condition 
for every will and action in foreign affairs.^ 

Since just these circles are now starting to switch the 
direction of our foreign policy in the most fatal way from 
a real advocacy of folkish interests of our people, to place 
it instead at the service of their fantastic ideology, I feel 
myself bound before my supporters to treat the most im- 
portant foreign-affairs question that is, relations with 
Russia specially and as fundamentally as is necessary for 
a general understanding and possible within the scope of 
a work of this sort. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 935 

I want in general, moreover, to make the following addi- 
tional preliminary remarks: 

If we understand by foreign policy the regulation of the 
relations of one people to the rest of the world, then the 
manner of regulation is conditioned by quite definite facts. 
As National Socialists we can further lay down the following 
principle as to the essence of the foreign policy of a folkish 
State: 

The foreign policy of a folkish State is charged with guar- 
anteeing the existence on this planet of the race embraced 
by the State, by establishing between the number and growth of 
the population, on the one hand, and the size and value of the 
soil and territory, on the other hand, a viable, natural relation- 
ship. 

Moreover, only that relationship can ever be regarded as 
healthy which assures the nourishment of a people from its 
own soil and territory. Every other situation, though it 
may last centuries and even millennia, is nevertheless 
unhealthy, and will sooner or later lead to the injuring if 
not the destruction of the people concerned. 

Only a sufficiently extensive area on this globe guarantees 
a nation freedom of existence. 

Moreover, the necessary extent of the domain to be 
occupied cannot be judged exclusively by contemporary 
requirements, nor even by the quantity of the produce of 
the soil compared to the population. For, as I have already 
argued in the first volume, under 4 German Alliance Policy 
Before the War/ the area of a State has also another, military- 
political significance than as a direct source of nourishment of 
a people. When a people has secured its nourishment for 

The German press reported Hitler as saying in 1931 : 'I have 
no intention of promoting inner colonization on a grand scale. 
. . . We can undertake a purposive rural settlement program 
only when the room we need has been placed at our disposal.' 



936 MEIN KAMPF 

itself by virtue of the extent of its soil and territory, k is 
nevertheless necessary to think also of securing the territory 
in hand. This depends on the State's general power-political 
force and strength which is to no small extent conditioned 
by geo-military considerations. 

Hence the German people can defend its future only as 
a world power. For almost two thousand years the defense 
of our nation's interests, as we shall term our more or less 
happy foreign policy, was world history. We ourselves wit- 
nessed this, because the great struggle of the nations in the 
years 1914-18 was only the German people's struggle for its 
existence on this planet, although we describe the type of 
event itself as World War. 

The German nation entered this battle as an alleged 
world power. I say alleged here, because in reality it was 
not. Had the German nation in the year 1914 had a different 
relation between territorial area and population, Germany 
would really have been a world power, and regardless of all 
other factors the War could have been happily terminated. 

It is not my task here, nor at all my intention, to point 
out the if in case the but had not existed. Nevertheless, 
I feel it an absolute necessity to expose the actual situation 
coldly and unvarnished, to point to its alarming weak- 
nesses, in order to deepen, at least in the ranks of the 
National Socialist movement, insight into what is required. 

Germany is no world power today. Even if our momentary 
military impotence were to be overcome, we would still 
have no claim to this title. What is the importance on this 
planet today of a structure, the relation of the population 
of which to its area stands so miserably as that of present- 
day Germany? In an epoch when the earth is gradually 
being divided among States, some of which encompass 
almost whole continents, one cannot speak of a structure 
as a world power the political mother country of which i? 
limited to the ridiculous area of barely five hundred thou- 
sand square kilometers. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 937 

Looked at purely territorially, the area of the German 
Reich compared with that of the so-called world powers 
altogether vanishes. One can really not take England as 
a standard of comparison, because the English mother 
country is really only the great capital of the British world 
empire which calls its own almost a fourth of the entire 
earth's surface. We must also consider as giant States first 
of all the American Union, then Russia and China. All 
magnitudes of greater area, some of them ten times greater 
than the present-day German Reich. And even France 
must be counted among these States. Not only because 
the colored human stock of its enormous empire supple- 
ments its army to an ever greater extent, she is racially 
making such progress in negrofying herself that one can 
really speak of the establishment of an African State on 
European soil. The colonial policy of present-day France 
cannot be compared with that of Germany in the past. 
Let the development of France continue three centuries 
more in the present manner, and the last remnants of 
Prankish blood will have succumbed in the developing 
European-African mulatto State. A mighty self-contained 
area of settlement from the Rhine to the Congo filled with 

This reflects the theory of 'Geographical Polities' (Geopoli- 
tik), which is presumably a scientific attempt to show that 
states and their history are determined by their geographical 
situations. Founded in Sweden by R. Kjellen, the science was 
introduced into Germany by R. Haushofer, who also founded 
the Zcitschfift fiir Geopolitik (Journal for GeopMtik). Many 
passages in this and other chapters of Mein Kampf have paral- 
lels in that periodical, and Haushofer is known to have in- 
fluenced Hitler's views. The principal result was the general 
Naxi theory that a Germany plus more space automatically 
meant a greater Germany. 'Geopolitical' proof for the neces- 
sity of Anschluss to Germany was disseminated throughout 
Austria. 



938 MEIN KAMPF 

an inferior race developing out of continual hybridization, 
t That differentiates the French from the old German 
colonial policy. 

The former German colonial policy, like everything we 
did, was a half measure. It neither enlarged the area of 
settlement of the German race, nor did it make an attempt 
criminal though it would have been to bring about 
a strengthening of the Reich through the introduction of 
black blood. The Askaris in German East Africa was 
a small, dilatory step along this road. In reality, it served 
only for the defense of the colony itself. The idea of bring- 
ing black troops onto a European battlefield, entirely apart 
from its realistic impossibility in the World War, never came 
up even as a plan which might be carried out under more 
favorable circumstances, whereas, on the contrary, it was 
felt by the French to be another internal reason for their 
colonial activity. 

Thus we see on the globe today a number of power States, 
some of which not only far outstrip the strength of our 
German population, but which have the greatest support of 
their position of political power above all in their area. 
Never was the relation of the German Reich to other world 
States on the scene so unfavorable, measured in terms of 
area and population, than at the beginning of our history 
two thousand years ago and once again today. At that time, 
as a young people, we stormily entered a world of great 
State structures in decline, the last giant among which, 
Rome, we ourselves helped to kill. Today we find ourselves 
in a world of great power States in formation, with our own 
Reich increasingly falling into insignificance. 

We must keep this bitter truth coolly and soberly before 
our eyes. We must follow and compare the population and 
area of the German Reich with those of other States 
through the centuries, and I know that then everybody will 
with dismay come to the conclusion which I have already 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 939 

stated at the beginning of this observation : Germany is no 
longer a world power, regardless of whether it is strong or 
weak in a military sense. &lt;+ 

We have dropped out of all relation to the other great 
States of the earth, and this thanks alone to the really fatal 
foreign-policy leadership of our nation, thanks to the com- 
plete lack, I might almost say, of an inherited determination 
of a fixed foreign-policy goal, and thanks to the loss of 
every healthy instinct and impulse of self-preservation. 

If the National Socialist movement really desires to be 
consecrated by history to a great mission for our people, it 
must, penetrated by knowledge of, and filled with suffering for, 
her real situation on this earth, valiantly and conscious of its 
goal, take up the fight against the aimlessness and incompetence 
which have heretofore guided the German people on the course 
of foreign affairs. It must, then, without regard to 'traditions' 
and prejudices, find the courage to assemble our people and 
their might for a march forward on that road which leads out 
of the present constriction of the domain of life, and hence also 

Compare Ernst Ottwalt: 'The foreign policy of the 
N.S.G.W.P. is based on racial argumentation. England is 
viewed as the natural ally of Germany, because blood is 
thicker than water. An alliance with England is possible only 
if Germany refrains from competing with British trade, and 
restricts itself to its continental r&amp;le. There must be a specific 
declaration that Germany does not seek to enlarge its terri- 
torial extent or the scope of its interests by attacking in a 
westerly direction. In exchange Germany must be given a 
free hand in the East, in order to rid the world of Bolshevism, 
to break up the present system of border states, and to use 
the whole of Eastern Europe as territory on which to settle 
the surplus German population. When it comes time to settle 
accounts with France, we reckon with British neutrality. 
Neutrality must be the British attitude, because France is 
succumbing more and more to 'negroidizing' and is therefore 



940 MEIN KAMPF 

permanently liberates from the danger of vanishing off this 
earth or having to enter the service of others as a slave nation. 
The National Socialist movement must endeavor to eliminate 
the discrepancy between our population and our area the 
latter viewed not only as a source of nourishment, but also as 
a point of support for power politics between our historical 
past and the hopelessness of our impotence today. It must, 
moreover, remain conscious that we are also obligated to 
a high duty as the guardians of the highest human race on 
this earth, and it will be all the more able to fulfill this duty, 
the more it contrives that the German people recovers its 
racial sense and, in addition to breeding dogs, horses, and 
cats, takes mercy on its own blood. 



t If I describe previous German foreign policy as aimless 
and incompetent, the proof of my contention resides in the 
realistic failure of this policy. The result of the struggle 
on this earth could not have been worse than what we see it 
to be today had our nation been spiritually inferior or 
cowardly. Nor should the tendency of the last pre-War 

a constant threat to the preservation of the white race in 
Europe. 1 (Cf. Dcutschland Erwache!) 

The foregoing pages are derived primarily from the findings 
of geopolitical science. The Slavic peoples pushed up to the 
Vistula in the north and established themselves in the Bo- 
hemian Forest to the south. Thereupon the Teutonic knights 
launched a counter-offensive in the Vistula Region (East Prus- 
sia), while the Bavarians peopled with Germans the region 
south of the Bohemian forest. Nevertheless the Czechs clung 
to the forest proper; and thence they could not be dislodged 
by the Habsburgs. After the World War they fortified this 
region, which thereupon constituted a Slavic fortress sundering 
North from South 'Germany. 9 The taking of that bastion 
without firing a shot is Hitler's greatest achievement. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 941 

decades mislead us about this; because the strength of an 
empire cannot be measured against itself, but only through 
comparison with other States. Precisely such a comparison, 
however, provides the proof that the accession of strength 
of other States was not only more uniform but even greater 
in its effects in the final result; that, hence, despite all the 
apparent rise, Germany's road really diverged from that 
of the other States more and more and fell way behind ; in 
short, the difference in magnitude increased to our disfavor. 
Indeed, as time went on we fell behind more and more even 
in population. Now, since our people certainly is surpassed 
by no other on the earth in valor, and, indeed, taken all in 
all, has certainly staked the most blood of all the nations 
of the earth to maintain its existence, failure can be due 
solely to the wrong way in which it was staked. 

When we examine the political experiences of our nation 
for more than a thousand years in this connection, let all 
the innumerable wars and struggles march past our eyes, 
and examine the final result which they produced and which 
confronts us today, we will have to confess that there 
emerge from this sea of blood really only three phenomena 
of which we may speak as lasting fruits of clearly defined 
transactions in foreign and general politics. 

(1) The colonization of the Ostmark, carried out largely 
by the Bavarians; 

(2) the acquisition and penetration of the region east of 
the Elbe; and, 

(3) the organization by the Hohenzollerns of the Bran- 
denburg-Prussian State as a model and crystalliza- 
tion nucleus of a new Reich. 

An instructive warning for the future ! 

The first two great successes of our foreign policy remain 
the most enduring. Without them, our nation today would 
no longer play any r61e at all. These were the first, and 
unfortunately the only successful, attempts to bring the 



942 MEIN KAMPF 

growing population into consonance with the extent of sofl 
and territory. And it must really be regarded as fatal that 
our German writing of history never understood how to 
estimate correctly these two, far and away greatest and, 
for posterity, most important achievements, but rather, 
compared with them, glorified everything possible, ad- 
miringly praised dreamy heroism and innumerable adven- 
turous wars and combats, instead of finally recognizing 
how unimportant most of these events have been for the 
main line of national development. * 

The third great achievement of our political activity 
consists of the creation of the Prussian State and the 
cultivation, which it precipitated, of a special State concep- 
tion, as well as of the bringing into organizational form and 
adaptation to the modern world of the German army's 
impulse of self-preservation and self-defense. The trans- 
formation of the individual defense idea into national 
defense duty sprung from this State structure and its new 
State conception. The importance of this development 
cannot in the least be exaggerated. Precisely the German 
nation, super-individualistically disintegrated because of 
its jumbled blood, regained from discipline through the 
Prussian army organism, at least in part, the capacity for 
organization which it had long missed. What is aboriginally 
present in other nations as a result of their herd instinct, we 
artificially reacquired for our national community, at least 
partially, through the process of military training. Con- 
sequently, moreover, the elimination of universal military 
service which might be of no great moment to dozens of 
other nations is of the most momentous significance to us. 
Ten German generations without corrective and pedagogical 
military training, abandoned to the evil effects of their 
jumbled blood and consequent jumbled view of life, and 
this nation would really have lost the last bit of any in- 
dependent existence on this planet. The German spirit 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 943 

could make its contribution to culture only in individual 
men in the bosom of foreign nations, without even having 
its origin recognized. Culture-fertilizers, until the last 
trace of Aryan-Nordic blood had been ruined or extinguished 
in us. 

It is remarkable that the significance of these real political 
successes which our nation wrested from its struggles of 
more than a millennium is far better grasped and ap- 
preciated by our opponents than by ourselves. Even today 
we rave about heroism which robbed our nation of millions 
of its noblest blood-bearers, and which nevertheless re- 
mained entirely sterile in the end. 

The distinction between the real political successes of our 
nation and the staking of national blood for fruitless ends 
is of the highest significance for our present and future 
attitude. 

We National Socialists must never at any time join in the 
vile patrioteering of our contemporary bourgeois world. It is 
especially fatal to regard the last pre-War developments as 
even in the slightest binding on our own course. Not a single 
obligation of the entire historical period of the nineteenth 
century, which was laid down in that period, can be met by 
us. In contrast to the attitude of the representatives of 
that epoch, we must again profess the advocacy of the 



Not much has been done to date towards reaching this 
objective. Austria was an overpopulated country, though its 
possible future as a tourist paradise must not be discounted. 
The regions acquired from Czechoslovakia afford no notable 
additions in the form of soil on which to settle German peasants. 
Even from a military point of view, the gains are not appreci- 
able, apart from the capture of the Czech fortifications and the 
gain of additional man-power. In some ways Germany is now 
more open to attack than it was previously. 

This is a statement to the effect that Germany must gird for 



944 MEIN KAMPF 

supreme point of view of every foreign policy; that is: To 
bring the land into consonance with the population. Yes, we 
can learn from the past only that we must undertake the 
setting of objectives for our political work in two directions: 
Soil and territory as the goal of our foreign policy, and a new 
unified foundation, solid in its view of life, as the goal of our 
domestic work. 



I want still briefly to take a position on the question of 
the extent to which the demand for soil and territory ap- 
pears to be ethically and morally justified. This is necessary 
because, unfortunately, even in so-called folkish circles, 
there turn up all sorts of pathetic babblers who occupy 
themselves sketching for the German people a rectification 
of the injustice of 1918 as the goal of its foreign-policy 
activity, but beyond that find it necessary to assure the 
entire world of folkish fraternity and sympathy. 

I would like, moreover, to say the following in anticipa- 
tion: The demand for the re-establishment of the frontiers of 
the year 1914 is political nonsense of such a degree and 
consequences as to look like a crime. Entirely aside from the 
fact that the frontiers of the Reich in the year 1914 were 
everything but logical. For they were, in reality, neither com- 

battle because it is possible to rectify in no other way the trea- 
ties by which its greatness has been impaired. Nevertheless the 
record of diplomacy is not as bad as it may seem. Belgium had 
virtually agreed to return Eupen-Malmedy, when the im- 
placable Poincare halted negotiations at the moment when 
success was assured; and it is quite generally conceded that in 
return for concessions to France on the armament question, 
a satisfactory solution of the Polish Corridor problem could 
have been found. The German attempt to form a customs 
union with Austria in 1930 was badly bungled, yet even so the 
World Court did not vote down the proposal by a wide margin. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 945 

plete with respect to the inclusion of people of German na- 
tionality, nor intelligent with respect to geo-military ap- 
propriateness. They were not the outcome of considered 
political action, but momentary frontiers of a political struggle 
in no way concluded, indeed, partly the result of the play of 
chance. With equal justice, and in many cases with greater 
justice, one could select any other milestone of German 
history to proclaim the re-establishment of the relations 
then prevailing as the goal of foreign-policy activity. The 
aforementioned demand, however, corresponds fully to our 
bourgeois world, which at this point, too, has not a single 
creative political thought for the future, but rather lives 
in the past and in the very recent past at that; for even 
their backward gaze does not reach beyond their own epoch. 
The law of inertia ties them to a given situation, compels 
them to offer resistance to any alteration of the same, with- 
out, however, ever increasing their defensive activity be- 
yond mere inertia. Thus it is a matter of course that these 
people's political horizon does not extend beyond the fron- 
tiers of the year 1914. But in so far as they proclaim the 
re-establishment of those frontiers as the political goal of 
their actions, they chain themselves permanently to the 
crumbling alliance of our opponents. This is the only ex- 
planation of why, eight years after a world struggle in which 
States with desires and aims, some of which were most 
heterogeneous in nature, participated, the coalition of the 
former victors can still keep itself together in a more or less 
tight form. 

All these States were, in their time, exploiters of the 
German collapse. The fear of our strength then induced 
subordination of the mutual greed and envy of the in- 
dividual powers. They saw the best protection against 
a coming rebellion in the most general possible inheriting 
of our Reich which could be managed. A bad conscience 
with fear of our national strength is even today still the most 



946 MEIN KAMPF 

enduring cement holding together the individual members 
of this alliance* 

And we do not disappoint them. In so far as our bour- 
geois world lays down as a political program for Germany 
the re-establishment of the frontiers of the year 1914, it 
scares back every partner who might want to bolt the al- 
liance of our enemies, because he must fear being attacked 
in isolation and thereby forfeiting the protection of his 
individual allies. Every individual State feels itself dis- 
turbed and threatened by that slogan. 

It is, moreover, doubly senseless: 

(1) because the instruments of power with which to 
translate it from the smoke of club evenings to reality 
are lacking; and 

(2) because the result, if it were realized, would still be 
so miserable that it would not pay, by God, to invest 
the blood of our nation for that again. 

For the fact that even the re-establishment of the borders 
of the year 1914 could be achieved only with blood should 
seem questionable to hardly anybody at all. Only childishly 
naive souls can lull themselves with the idea that they can 
bring about a rectification of Versailles by intrigue and 
begging. Entirely apart from the fact that such an attempt 
would presuppose the nature of a Talleyrand, which we 
do not have. Half our political figures are rather cunning 
but equally characterless elements, who are on the whole 
inimically disposed towards our people, while the other 
half is composed of kind-hearted, harmless, and easy-going 
nitwits. Moreover, times have changed since the Congress 
of Vienna: princes and the mistresses of princes do not barter 
and haggle about frontiers, but the implacable world Jew is 
struggling for dominion over the nations. No nation can dis- 
lodge this fist from its throat except by the sword. Only 
the united, concentrated force of a mighty insurgent na- 
tionalist passion can defy the international enslavement of 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 947 

the nations. But such a development is and remains a 
bloody one. 

If, however, one professes the conviction that the German 
future, one way or another, calls forth the supreme risk, 
one must, entirely aside from all considerations of political 
intelligence in itself, for the very sake of this risk, pose and 
fight for a goal worthy of it. 

The frontiers of the year 1914 signify nothing at all for 
the future of the German nation. They embodied neither 
a protection in the past, nor would they embody strength 
for the future. The German nation will neither maintain 
its internal integrity through them, nor will its sustenance 
be guaranteed by them, nor do these frontiers appear 
appropriate or even satisfactory from a military viewpoint, 
nor, finally, can they improve the relation in which, at the 
moment, we find ourselves with respect to the other world 
powers, or rather, the real world powers. The distance to 
England will not be shortened, the size of the Union not 
achieved; no, France will not even experience a material 
decrease in her world political importance. 

Only one thing would be certain : even assuming a favor- 
able outcome, such an attempt at re-establishing the 
frontiers of 1914 would lead to an additional bleeding of our 
national body, to an extent that no worth-while blood re- 
serve would be available for national life and for decisions 
and actions which would really insure the nation's future. 
On the contrary, in the intoxication of such a shallow success 
every added posing of goals would be the more readily 
abandoned, once the 'national honor* had been restored 
and some doors reopened, at least for a time, to commercial 
development. 

As opposed to this, we National Socialists must cling 
unflinchingly to our foreign-policy aims, that is to guarantee 
the German nation the soil and territory to which it is entitled 
an this earth. And this is the only action which, before God 



948 MEIN KAMPF 

and our German posterity, would seem to justify an invest- 
ment of blood : before God, since we are placed in this world 
on condition of an eternal struggle for daily bread, as beings 
to whom nothing shall be given and who owe their position 
as lords of the earth only to the genius and courage with 
which they know how to struggle for and defend it: before 
our German posterity, however, in so far as we spill no 
citizen's blood except that out of it a thousand others are 
bequeathed to posterity. The soil and territory on which 
a race of German peasants will some day be able to beget 
sons sanction the investment of the sons of today, and will 
some day acquit the responsible statesmen of blood and 
guilt and national sacrifice, even though they be persecuted 
by their contemporaries. 

f I must attack most sharply those folkish scribbler souls 
who claim to see a 'breach of sacred human rights' in such 
an acquisition of territory, and who consequently direct 
their effusions against it. One really never knows who 
stands behind one of those fellows. It is only certain that 
the confusion which they are able to create is desired by 
and opportune to our national enemies. By such an attitude 
they wantonly aid from within in undermining and cutting 
the ground from under our nation's only means of properly 

The similarity of Mussolini's demands for more territory is 
obvious. It is remarkable that, in referring to eastern Europe 
as the terrain on which German farmers would be settled, 
Hitler never indicates what the fate of the present residents is 
to be. All the States lying between Germany and Russia are 
age-old agricultural States. Poland has a vast surplus popula- 
tion, and the highest birth-rate in Europe. A constant tide of 
emigrating Slovak and Lithuanian peasants has poured over- 
seas. These facts were pointed out by a number of dissident 
nationalist writers in the years after 1924, and it is against them 
that Hitler directs his shafts. Some indication of the contents of 
brochures by such authors is given by Heiden. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 949 

standing up for its life necessities. For no nation possesses 
even a single square kilometer of soil and territory on this 
earth because of a superior will, let alone a superior right. 
Just as the German frontiers are frontiers of chance and 
temporary frontiers in the day's passing political struggles, 
so are the frontiers of other nations' domain of life. And so, 
just as the formation of our earth's surface can seem un- 
alterable as granite only to the thoughtless nitwit, but in 
truth always amounts only to a seeming point of calm in 
a running development, created by the mighty forces of 
nature in a constant process of becoming, perhaps tomorrow 
already, to experience destruction and metamorphosis as 
a result of greater forces, such, too, are frontiers of the 
domain of life in the existence of nations. 

State frontiers are man-made and can be altered by man. 

The reality of a nation having managed a dispropor- 
tionate acquisition of territory is no superior obligation for 
its eternal recognition. It proves at most the might of the 
conqueror and the weakness of the victim. And, moreover, 
this might alone makes right. If the German people today, 
penned into an impossible area, face a wretched future, this 
is as little Fate's command as its rejection would constitute 
a snub to Fate. Just as little as some superior power has 
promised another nation more soil and territory than the 
German, or would be insulted by the fact of this unjust 
division of territory. Just as our forefathers did not get the 
land on which we are living today as a gift from Heaven, but 
had to conquer it by risking their lives, so no folkish grace 
but only the might of a triumphant sword will in the future 
assign us territory, and with it life for our nation.** 

Much as we all today recognize the necessity for a reckon- 
ing with France, it will remain largely ineffective if our 
foreign-policy aim is restricted thereto. It has and will 
retain significance if it provides the rear cover for an en- 
largement of our national domain of life in Europe. For 



950 MEIN KAMPF 

we will find this question's solution not in colonial acquisi- 
tions, but exclusively in the winning of land for settlement 
which increases the area of the motherland itself, and 
thereby not only keeps the new settlers in the most intimate 
community with the land of origin, but insures to the total 
area those advantages deriving from its united magnitude. 

The folkish movement must be not the attorney for other 
nations, but the vanguard fighter of its own. Otherwise it 
is superfluous, and especially has no right to beef about the 
past. For then it is acting like the past. Much as the old 
German policy was improperly determined from dynastic 
viewpoints, equally little must the future be governed by 
dreamy folkish cosmopolitanism. Above all, however, we 
are not protective police for the well-known 'poor little 
nations,' but soldiers of our own nation. 

We National Socialists, however, must go further: the 
right to soil and territory can become a duty if decline seems 
to be in store for a great nation unless it extends its territory. 
Even more especially if what is involved is not some little 
negro people or other, but the German mother of all life, 
which has given its cultural picture to the contemporary 
world. Germany will be either a world power or witt not be at 
all. To be a world power, however, it requires that size 
which nowadays gives its necessary importance to such 
a power, and which gives life to its citizens. 



With this, we National Socialists consciously draw a line 
through the foreign-policy trend of our pre-War period. We 
take up at the halting place of six hundred years ago. We 
terminate the endless German drive to the south and west of 
Europe, and direct our gaze towards the lands in the east. We 
finally terminate the colonial and trade policy of the pre-War 
period, and proceed to the territorial policy of the future. 

But if we talk about new soil and territory in Europe to- 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 951 

day, we can think primarily only of Russia and its vassal 
border states. 

Fate itself seems to seek to give us a tip at this point. 
In the surrender of Russia to bolshevism, the Russian 
people was robbed of that intelligentsia which theretofore 
produced and guaranteed its State stability. For the 
organization of a Russian State structure was not the result 
of Russian Slavdom's State-political capacity, but rather 
a wonderful example of the State-building activity of the 
German element in an inferior race. Thus have innumerable 
mighty empires of the earth been created. Inferior nations 
with German organizers and lords as leaders have more than 
once expanded into powerful State structures, and endured 
as long as the racial nucleus of the constructive State-race 
maintained itself. For centuries Russia drew nourishment 
from this Germanic nucleus of its superior strata of leaders. 

Another 'folkish' writer, N. von Holleben-Alzbey, published 
(1929) a treatise entitled Kleineuropa in which the following 
remarks occur: 'Paneuropa is inevitable, but the form it is 
destined to take is not that imagined by the Communistic 
liberals who today lead a movement bearing that name. The 
unification of Europe is to be achieved not only without 
England and Russia, but also without France, which with its 
colonies forms an empire of its own. In the 'Little Europe 1 
thus remaining, Germany will exercise the leadership. . . . The 
renaissance of Germanism in Europe means that Germany has 
the duty to take the leadership of the States which are Fascisti- 
cally ruled, and itself perfect the Fascist system by transform- 
ing it into State Socialism of a genuine kind. The great obliga- 
tion resting upon Germany is to establish a world empire, 
and the method outlined is the most effective way of meeting 
that obligation. Yet it may be that Germany will not be able 
to perform its duty until it has defeated France, thus leaving 
the way dear towards the East. By fighting a war against 
Russia, it could then automatically solidify the center of 



952 MEIN KAMPF 

Today it is uprooted and obliterated almost without a trace. 
The Jew has replaced it. Impossible as it is for the Russians 
alone to shake off the yoke of the Jews through their own 
strength, it is equally impossible in the long run for the 
Jews to maintain the mighty empire. Jewry itself is not an 
organizing element, but a ferment of decomposition. The 
Persian Empire, once so powerful, is now ripe for collapse; 
and the end of Jewish dominion in Russia will also be the 
end of the Russian State itself. We have been chosen by 
Fate to be the witnesses of a catastrophe which will be the 
most powerful substantiation of the correctness of the folk- 
ish theory of race. 

Our task, the mission of the National Socialist movement, 
however, is to bring our own nation to such political insight 
as will make it see its future goal fulfilled, not by an intoxicat- 
ing impression of a new Alexandrian campaign, but rather 



Europe under its leadership.' The ideas here expressed go 
back in part to the conception of Mitteleuropa (Central Europe) 
sponsored before the War by Friedrich Naumann. The 'Com- 
munistic liberals' referred to in the citation are the group 
welded together in the Pan-Europa movement by Count 
Coudenshove-Kalergi. 

The internal situation of Russia seemed quite desperate in 
1926, and the downfall of the regime was confidently expected. 
Scheubner-Richter, Rosenberg, and other White Russian friends 
had assured Hitler that the crash was imminent and inevitable. 
The 'plan' was: the exiled 'Russian intelligence' would invite 
German assistance in putting down the revolution and restor- 
ing order. There was at that time no thought of a war on 
Russia, but only of a participation in a counter-revolutionary 
movement. Since 1933, the Nazis have certainly done every- 
thing in their power to foment trouble in Russia. There may 
be more real fact behind the Stalin 'purge' than has as yet 
leaked out. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 953 

by the industrious labor of the German plow which needs only 
to be given land by the sword. 



It is natural that Jewry declares the sharpest resistance 
to such a policy. It senses better than anybody else the 
importance of this action for its own future. Precisely this 
fact should have taught all really nationally minded men the 
correctness of such a reorientation. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, the opposite is the case. Not only in German nation- 
alist but even in 'folkish' circles violent challenges are 
issued to the idea of such an eastern policy, with people, as 
almost always in such matters, calling on somebody greater. 
Bismarck's spirit is cited to cover a policy as senseless as it 
is impossible and, in the highest degree, harmful to the 
German people. 'Bismarck himself of yore always put 
a value on good relations with Russia/ That is certainly 
true. Only they entirely forget to point out in this connec- 
tion that he put equally great value, for example, on good 
relations with Italy, indeed, that the same Herr von Bis- 
marck once allied himself with Italy the better to be able 
to finish off Austria. Then why not continue this policy, 
too? 'Because the Italy of today is not the Italy of that 
time,' it will be said. Good. But then, honorable gentlemen, 
permit the objection that present-day Russia is also no 
longer oldtime Russia. It never occurred to Bismarck to 
desire to lay down a political course of tactics as a matter of 
eternal principle. In this respect he was far too much the 
master of the moment to put such a chain on himself. The 
question, then, must not be: What did Bismarck do in his time? 
but rather: What would he do today? And this question is 
easier to answer. He would never, with his political intel- 
ligence, ally himself with a State which is doomed to decline. 

Furthermore, even in his time Bismarck viewed German 
colonial and trade policy with mixed feelings, since he was 



954 MEIN KAMPF 

primarily concerned only with making possible in the surest 
way the consolidation and internal fortifying of the State 
structure he had created. This, too, was the only reason 
why he then welcomed the Russian rear cover, which gave 
him a free hand in the west. However, that which was then 
useful to Germany would today only harm us. 

Already in the year 1920-21, when the young National 
Socialist movement was slowly beginning to raise itself 
above the political horizon and here and there was pro- 
nounced the German national freedom movement, people 
came to the party from various quarters trying to establish 
some connection between it and the freedom movements of 
other countries. This was along the lines of the 'league of 
oppressed nations' propagated by many. There were in- 
volved chiefly representatives of individual Balkan States 
and, in addition, some from Egypt and India, who in- 
dividually always impressed me as gabbling pomposities 
without any realistic background. Not a few Germans, 
however, especially in the nationalist camp, let themselves 
be confused by such inflated Orientals and immediately 
believed they had before them, in the person of some ad- 
venturous Indian or Egyptian student or other, a 'repre- 
sentative ' of India or Egypt. These people were not at all 
clear that these were at most individuals behind whom 
stood nothing at all, who were, above all, authorized by 
nobody to conclude any agreement with anybody at all, so 
that the practical result of every relation with such elements 
was null, unless one particularly wants to record the loss of 
time as a deficit. I always guarded against such attempts. 

After 1933, however, delegations of Hindus were officially 
complimented on their 'revolutionary movement/ whether 
they had been associated with such an enterprise or not. 
Egyptians were placated, and sympathy was extended to the 
Arabs living under British rule. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 955 

Not only did I have something better to do than to fritter 
away weeks on such fruitless 'conferences,' but, even had it 
been a question of an authorized representative of such 
nations, I also held that the whole business was useless and 
even harmful. 

Even in time of peace it was bad enough for German 
alliance policy, as the result of a lack of our own active plans 
of attack, to end in a defensive union of ancient States 
pensioned off by world history. The alliance with Austria, 
as well as that with Turkey, embodied little that was 
gratifying. While the greatest military and industrial 
States of the earth joined in an active offensive league, 
a couple of old impotent State structures were collected 
and an attempt was made to present a bold front to an 
active world coalition by means of rubbish doomed to 
decay. Germany got the bitter bill for this error in foreign 
policy. But this bill still appears not to have been bitter 
enough to protect our everlasting dreamers from tumbling 
into the same error right away. For the attempt to disarm 
the all-powerful victors by a 'league of oppressed nations* 
is not only ridiculous but also disastrous. It is disastrous 
because our nation is thereby again diverted from real 
possibilities, so that it devotes itself not to reality but to 
fantastic, for all that, fruitless hopes and illusions. The 
present-day German really resembles the drowning man 
who grasps at every straw. And this can apply also to 
otherwise very educated people. Let only the will-o'-the- 
wisp of a never-so-unreal hope be visible anywhere, and 
these people trot out with the greatest haste and start 
chasing the phantom. Whether it be a league of oppressed 
nations, a League of Nations, or some other dreamy dis- 
covery, it will, in any case, find thousands of credulous 
souls. 

I still recall the equally childish and incomprehensible 
hopes that England was facing a collapse in India which 



956 MEIN KAMPF 

suddenly arose in folkish circles in the years 1920-21. Some 
Asiatic fakir or other, perhaps, for all I care, some real 
Indian 4 fighters for freedom,' who were then running around 
Europe, contrived to stuff even otherwise quite intelligent 
people with the fixed idea that the British Empire, whose 
keystone is in India, was on the verge of collapse right there. 
Naturally, it did not occur to them that in this case, too, 
the father of all thoughts was only their own wish. Equally 
little the paradoxically of their own hopes. For, in so far as 
they expected the end of the British Empire and English 
power to result from a collapse of English rule in India, 
they admitted themselves that precisely India was of the 
most paramount importance to England, 
t This question of the greatest life import, however, would 
probably be known not only to a German folkish prophet as 
a most profound secret, but presumably also even to the 
guides of English destiny themselves. It is really rather 
childish to assume that in England they do not know how 
properly to estimate the importance of the Indian Empire 
for the British world union. And if anybody flatters himself 
that England will let India go without risking her last drop 
of blood, that is simply a bad sign of the absolute failure to 
learn from the World War and the complete misunderstand- 
ing and ignorance of Anglo-Saxon determination. It is, 
furthermore, a proof of the German's total lack of any 
notion of the whole method of British penetration and 
administration of this empire. England will lose India only 
if it either falls victim to racial degeneration within its own 
administrative machinery (something which, at the moment, 
is entirely excluded in India), or if it is compelled to by the 
sword of a powerful enemy. Indian rebels will, however, 
never achieve this. We Germans have learned well enough 
how hard it is to force England. Entirely aside from the 
fact that, as a German, I would, despite everything, still 
far rather see India under English than under some other 
rule* 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 957 

Hopes in the legendary uprising in Egypt are exactly as 
wretched. The 'Holy War' can produce in our German 
muttonheads the pleasant thrill that now others are ready 
to shed their blood for us because this cowardly specula- 
tion has, to speak bluntly, been the silent father of all such 
hopes but in reality it will meet a ghastly end under the 
fire of English machine-gun companies and the hail of 
explosive bombs. 

It is simply an impossibility for a coalition of cripples to 
storm a powerful State determined, if need be, to risk the 
last drop of blood for its existence. As a folkish man, who 
estimates the value of humanity on racial bases, I may not, 
simply because of my knowledge of their racial inferiority, 
link my own nation's fate with that of these so-called 
'oppressed nations/ 

But today we must adopt exactly the same attitude with 
respect to Russia. The former Russia, divested of its 
German upper stratum, is, entirely aside from its new rulers' 
private plans, no ally for a struggle of the German nation for 
freedom. Considered purely militarily, in the event of a 
Germano-Rustian war against western Europe, which would 
probably, however, mean against the entire rest of the world, the 
relations would be simply catastrophic. The struggle would 
proceed not on Russian but on German soil, without Germany 
being able to get from Russia even the slightest effective 
support. The present German Reich's instruments of 
power are so miserable and so impossible for an external 
fight that not even a border guard could be maintained 
against western Europe including England, and precisely 
the German industrial district would lie defenselessly 
abandoned to our opponents' concentrated weapons of 
attack. In addition, there lies between Germany and Rus- 
sia the Polish State, reposing entirely in French hands. In 
the event of a Germane-Russian war against western 
Europe, Russia would have to subdue Poland before it 



958 MEIN KAMPF 

could bring its first soldiers to a German front. It is, how- 
ever, not nearly so much a question of soldiers as it is of 
technical armament. In this respect the World War situa- 
tion would repeat itself, only much more horribly. Just as 
German industry was then drained for our famous allies, 
and Germany had to fight the technical war almost entirely 
by itself, so would Russia completely drop out of this war 
as a technical factor in this struggle. The universal motori- 
zation of the world, which in the next war will be over- 
whelmingly decisive in the struggle, could hardly be met by 
us. For not only has Germany itself remained shamefully 
far behind in this most important field, but with the little 
it has, it would have to support Russia, which even today 
can still not call its own a single factory in which can be 
manufactured a motor vehicle that really runs. Moreover, 
such a struggle would have simply the character of a 
slaughter. Germany's youth would shed still more blood 
than of yore because, as always, the burden of the struggle 
would weigh only on us, and the result would be inevitable 
defeat. 

But even granting the case that a miracle were to tran- 
spire and that such a struggle would not terminate with 
Germany's total destruction, the final outcome would only 
be that the German nation, bled white, would afterwards as 
before remain surrounded by great military States and 
would consequently have altered its real situation in no 
way at all. 

Compare the point of view of Gregor Strasser, Hitler's great* 
est rival in the Nazi Party. He felt that Germany's foremost 
endeavor must be complete revision of the Treaty of Versailles, 
and held that the only possible ally was Russia. Speaking in 
the Reichstag on October 17, 1930, Strasser declared that the 
"major consideration' of German foreign policy must be the 
restoration of 'German honor' by wiping out completely every 
vestige of what had happened since 1918. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 959 

One should not now raise the objection that an alliance 
with Russia would not immediately imply a war, or, if it 
does, that it might be fundamentally prepared for. No. 
An alliance whose aim does not comprise a plan for war is 
senseless and worthless. One makes alliances only for fight- 
ing. And, however remote the clash may be at the moment 
of concluding a treaty of alliance, the plan of a belligerent 
development is nonetheless its inner motive. And let it 
not be thought that any other power will otherwise con- 
ceive the meaning of such an alliance. Either a Germano- 
Russian coalition remains on paper, in which case it would 
be pointless and worthless for us, or it would be trans- 
formed from the words of a treaty into a visible reality 
and the rest of the world would be warned. How naive to 
think that, in such an event, England and France would 
wait a decade until the Germano-Russian alliance had fin- 
ished its technical war preparations. No, the storm would 
break over Germany with the speed of lightning. 

Thus the fact of the conclusion of a treaty with Russia em- 
bodies the declaration of the next war. Its outcome would 
be the end of Germany. &lt; 

In addition, there is the following: 

f I. The present rulers of Russia do not at all think of 
entering an alliance sincerely or of keeping one. 

We must never forget that the regents of present-day 
Russia are common bloodstained criminals; that here is the 
scum of humanity, which, favored by conditions in a tragic 
hour, overran a great State, butchered and rooted out 
millions of its leading intellects with savage bloodthirsti- 
ness, and for nearly ten years has exercised the most fright- 
ful r6gime of tyranny of all time. Nor must we forget that 
these rulers belong to a nation which combines a rare 
mixture of bestial horror with an inconceivable gift of lying, 
and today more than ever before believes itself called upon 
to impose its bloody oppression on the whole world. We 



960 MEIN KAMPF 

must not forget that the international Jew, who today 
rules Russia absolutely, sees in Germany, not an ally, but a 
State marked for the same destiny. But one does not con- 
clude a treaty with someone whose sole interest is the destruc- 
tion of his partner. Above all, one does not make them 
with parties to whom no treaty would be sacred, since they 
inhabit this world, not as the advocates of honor and truth- 
fulness, but as the advocates of lying, deceit, theft, rapine, 
and plundering. If anybody thinks of going into treaty 
ties with parasites, this resembles a tree's efforts to con- 
clude to its own advantage an agreement with a mistletoe. 
2. The danger which once overwhelmed Russia always 
faces Germany. Only a bourgeois simpleton can flatter 
himself that Bolshevism is banished. In this superficial 
thinking, he has no notion that this is a question of an 
instinctive matter i.e., the drive of the Jewish nation to 
world rule a matter just as natural as the impulse of the 
Anglo-Saxons on their side to secure dominion over this 
earth for themselves. And, just as the Anglo-Saxon pur- 
sues this course in his way and fights his struggle with his 
weapons, so also does the Jew. He pursues his course, the 
course of sneaking in among the nations and of gouging 
them internally, and he fights with his weapons, with lies 
and slanders, poison and destruction, intensifying the 
struggle to the point of bloodily exterminating his hated 
opponents. In Russian bolshevism we must see Jewry's 
twentieth-century effort to take world dominion unto itself, 
just as it sought to strive towards the same goal in other 
periods by other, if inwardly related, doings. Its effort is 
most profoundly based on the nature of its essence. As 
little as any other nation renounces of its own volition to 
yield to its impulse towards expanding its nature and 
power, but must be forced to do so by external relations 
or falls into senile impotence, so little also will the Jew 
abandon his course towards world dictatorship by volun- 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 961 

tary self-denial or by suppressing his eternal drive. He, too f 
must be thrown back in his course either by forces lying 
outside himself or all his impulse towards world rule must 
be finished by dying of itself. The impotence of nations, 
their own death of old age, however, comes from the aban- 
donment of their purity of blood. And the Jew guards this 
better than any other people of the earth. Thereby he con- 
tinues to move farther on his fatal course, until another 
force opposes him and, in a mighty struggle, once more 
pitches the stormer of the heavens back to Lucifer. 

Germany is today the next great battle aim of bolshevism, 
It requires all the force of a young missionary idea once 
again to inspire our nation to break out of the snare of this 
international snake and internally to check the tainting of 
our blood, so that the nation's forces can thereby be de- 
voted to the securing of our nationality, which may make 
it possible to prevent a repetition of the final catastrophe 
until the end of time. But if one pursues this goal, then it is 
insanity to ally oneself with a power which has as its rulers 
the mortal enemy of our own future. How shall our own 
nation be freed from the chains of this poisonous embrace 
if we hand ourselves over to it? How reveal bolshevism to 
the individual German worker as an accursed crime against 
humanity if we ally ourselves with the organizations of 
this spawn of hell, and thereby recognize it as a whole? 
With what right shall we then condemn members of the 
broad masses for their sympathy for a view of life if the 
very leaders of the State choose the representatives of this 
view of life as allies? 

The struggle against Jewish bolshevization of the world 
requires a clear attitude towards Soviet Russia. You cannot 
drive out the Devil with Beelzebub. 

If even folkish circles today are smitten with an alliance 
with Russia, then let them merely contemplate Germany 
and become conscious of what support they are getting for 



962 MEIN KAMPF 

their initiative. Or do folkish people lately regard an action 
which is welcomed and demanded by the international 
Marxist press as blessed for the German people? Since when 
do folkish people struggle with a weapon which the Jew 
offers us like a shield-bearer? -4* 

Against the old German Reich could be raised one main 
charge with respect to its policy of alliance. But not this 
one, that it no longer maintained good relations with Russia, 
but only that, as a result of a constant oscillating to and fro, 
trying in diseased weakness to maintain world peace at all 
costs, it ruined its relations with others. 

I confess openly that in pre-War times I already held it 
better had Germany, at the sacrifice of the senseless colonial 
policy and at the sacrifice of the merchant and naval fleet, 
stood in alliance with England against Russia, and thus 
switched from the feeble world-wide policy to a determined 
European policy of continental territorial acquisition. 

I do not forget the constant impudent threat which the 
then pan-Slav Russia dared level against Germany; I do 
not forget the constant practice mobilizations whose sole 
point was to offend Germany; I cannot forget the attitude 
of Russian public opinion which, even before the War, 
outdid itself in hateful sallies against our nation and Reich, 
cannot forget the influential Russian press which always 
was more enthusiastic for France than for us. 

But despite all that there had also been an alternative 
before the War; one could have relied on Russia in order to 
turn against England. 

Today relations are different. If, before the War, one 
could have gone with Russia at the cost of throttling every 
last feeling, this is today no longer possible. Since then 
the hand of the world clock has advanced farther and with 
mighty strokes it calls out to us that hour in which our 
nation's destiny must be decided one way or the other. 
The present consolidation of the earth's great States is 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 963 

our last warning signal to stop and think, and to bring our 
nation back out of the world of dreams to hard reality, and 
to point the road to the future which alone leads the old 
Reich to a new blossoming. 

If the National Socialist movement frees itself from all 
illusions with respect to this great and most important task, 
and accepts reason as the sole leader, the catastrophe of 
1918 can still become an eternal blessing for the nation's 
future. Then our nation may emerge from this collapse to a 
completely new orientation of its foreign-policy activity 
and, further, fortified by its new domestic view of life, also 
achieve a definitive stabilization of its foreign policy ex- 
ternally. It can then finally get what England has and what 
even Russia had, and what again and again enables France 
always to hit on decisions uniformly and basically correct 
for its interests, that is: a political testament. 

The political testament of the German nation for its deal- 
ings with the outside world, however, should and must 
always read substantially : 

Never tolerate the establishment of two continental powers 
in Europe. See an attack on Germany in any such 
attempt to organize a military power on the frontiers of 
Germany, be it only in the form of the creation of a State 
capable of becoming a military power, and, in that case, 
regard it not only a right, but a duty, to prevent the estab- 
lishment of such a State by all means including the 
application of armed force, or, in the event that such a 
one be already founded, to repress it. See to it that the 

There are three strong non-German military powers on the 
Continent today France, Poland, and Italy. The German 
plan is seemingly to push Italy gently off the Continent into 
Africa. Yet it is difficult to see how even the acquisition of 
Tunis, provided it were available, could help to compensate 
(or the loss of influence on the European mainland. 



964 MEIN KAMPF 

strength of our nation is founded, not on colonies, but on 
the European territory of the homeland. Never regard the 
&gt; Reich as secure while it is unable to give every national 
offshoot for centuries his own bit of soil and territory. 
Never forget that the most sacred right in this world is the 
right to that earth which a man desires to till himself, 
and the most sacred sacrifice that blood which a man 
spills for this earth. 



I do not want to conclude these reflections without re- 
ferring again to the sole possibility of an alliance which we 
have today in Europe. Already in the previous chapter on 
the German problem of alliance I have indicated England 
and Italy as the only two States in Europe an intimate 
relation with which is worth pursuing and promising of 
success for us. Here I merely wish to run over the military 
importance of such an alliance. 

The military consequences of the conclusion of this 
alliance would in each and every way be the opposite to 
those of an alliance with Russia. The most important is 
first the fact that an approach to England and Italy would in 
itself in no way evoke danger of war. The only power which 
would come into question as opposing the alliance, France, 
would not be in a position to do so. The alliance, however, 
would give Germany a chance to make quite calmly those pre- 
parations which, one way or another, must be undertaken 
within the bounds of such a coalition for a reckoning with 
France. For the momentousness of such a type of alliance 
lies precisely in the fact that Germany would not suddenly 
on concluding it be abandoned to a hostile invasion, but 
that the opposing alliance itself collapses, that Entente to 
which we owe such unending misfortune dissolves itself, 
and thereby the mortal enemy of our nation, France, is left 
in isolation. Even if this result had at first only a moral 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 965 

effect, it would suffice to give Germany a degree of freedom 
of movement which today can hardly be imagined. For the 
initiative would be in the hands of the new European Anglo- 
German-Italian alliance, and no longer in those of France. 
t A further consequence would be that Germany would be 
freed from its adverse strategic situation at one blow. The 
most powerful protection of the flank on one side, the com- 
plete guaranty of our supply of the necessities of life and 
raw materials on the other side, would be the blessed effect 
of the new order of States. 

But almost more important would be the fact that the new 
union of States comprises a capacity for technical performance 
which, in many respects, is almost mutually complementary. 
For the first time Germany would have allies who do not 
suck like leeches on our own economy, but which both could 
and would contribute their share to the richest completion 
of our technical armament. 

Nor should one overlook the final fact that in both cases 
these would be allies whom one cannot compare with 
Turkey or present-day Russia. The greatest world power of 
the earth and a youthful national State would constitute 
different premises for a struggle in Europe than did the putrid 
State corpses with which Germany had allied itself in the 
last war. 

Of course, as I already emphasized in the previous chap- 
ter, the difficulties standing in the way of such an alliance 
are great. But was the building of the Entente a less diffi- 
cult job? What the genius of a King Edward VII achieved, 
partly almost against natural interest, must and will also be 
achieved by us if knowledge of the necessity of such a develop- 
ment so animates us that, exercizing intelligent self-control, 
we determine our own action accordingly. And this is possible 
the moment when, filled with warning need, one single 
course, conscious of its aim, is adopted and held, instead of 
the past decade's foreign-policy aimlessness. Neither western 



966 MEIN KAMPF 

nor eastern orientation should be the future goal of our foreign 
policy, but an eastern policy signifying the acquisition of the 
necessary soil for our German people. Since we need strength 
for this, but the mortal enemy of our nation, France, relent- 
lessly throttles us and robs our strength, we must undertake 
every sacrifice which may help bring about a nullification of 
the French drive for European hegemony. Every power which, 
like us, finds intolerable France's aspiration to dominion over 
the continent, is today our natural ally. No path to such a 
power must seem too difficult to us and no renunciation must 
seem unspeakable if the end result only offers the possibility of 
subduing our most enraged enemies. Once we have been able 
to cauterize and close the biggest, we will calmly be able to 
leave to the gentle ministrations of time the healing of our 
little wounds. -4- 

Of course, today we encounter the hateful yapping of our 
internal national enemies. We National Socialists, however, 
should never be diverted thereby from proclaiming what is, 
according to our deepest conviction, absolutely necessary. 
Today, it is true, we must buck the stream of a public 
opinion duped by Jewish cunning in the exploitation of 
German thoughtlessness, and at times, it is true, the break- 
ers surge about us angrily and furiously, but he who swims 
with the current is more readily overlooked than he who 
bucks the waves. Today we are a reef; in only a few years 



The meaning of this passage is perfectly clear, and there 
have always been those who maintain that, all other passages 
in Mein Kampf to the contrary notwithstanding, the ultimate 
objective of Nazi foreign policy is the destruction of France. 
We think, however, that Hitler's original idea was that France 
was to be attacked only in order to open the way eastward. 
If this route is unbarred without a war, as seems to be the case 
at present, the reasons why Germany should attack France 
immediately are, of course, far less obvious. 



ORIENTATION OR EASTERN POLICY 967 

Fate can throw us up as a dam against which the general 
stream will break, to flow in a new bed. 
t Precisely for this the National Socialist movement must 
be recognized and established in the eyes of the outside 
world as the bearer of a definite political plan. Whatever 
Heaven may have in store for us, let us be recognizable by our 
very visors. 

The instant we ourselves recognize the great need which 
our foreign-policy action must resolve, there will flow from 
this recognition the strength of inflexibility, which we will 
sometimes require when this one or that one, under the 
drum fire of the hostile hounds of our press, becomes rather 
anxiously uncomfortable, and there creeps on him the easy 
inclination to make a concession here or there, in order not 
to have everybody against him, and to howl with the 
wolves.-* 

On September 10, 1930, Hitler issued a 'Manifesto ' in which 
these criticisms of the foreign policy of the Republic were re- 
peated. The National Socialist movement will,' he said, 'not 
continue to pursue the policy of everlasting wooing of the good 
will of France once it has come to power. Every hand that is 
offered to us in Europe by nations whose needs and convictions 
are like ours will be accepted with thanks. We shall see to it 
that the prestige of our people is once more, in the future, 
consonant with its natural value.' Commenting on this 
'Manifesto,' Count Reventlow said: 'Face to face with a 
Germany which National Socialism led and unified, and which 
was flushed with energy and determination, France would 
adopt a totally different attitude from that which has charac- 
terized its relationships with the Germany of Stresemann, of 
the Social Democrats, of the Free Masons, and of the big 
Jewish banks.' This is interesting in view of what has happened 
since 1933. 



CHAPTER XV 

EMERGENCY DEFENSE 
AS A RIGHT 



f% TWMITH the laying-down of arms in November, 1918, 
%JL^ a policy was introduced which, in all human proba- 
T v bility, was bound to lead slowly to complete sub- 
mission. Historical examples of a similar type show that 
nations which first strike arms without the most compelling 
reasons, in the time that follows put up with the greatest 
humiliation and extortions rather than attempt a change 
of their fate by a renewed appeal to violence. 

This is humanly explicable. An intelligent victor will, 
whenever possible, present his demands to the vanquished 
in installments. He can then be sure that a nation which 
has become characterless and such is every one which 
voluntarily submits will no longer find any sufficient 
reason in each of these detailed oppressions to take to arms 
once more. The more extortions thus cheerfully accepted, 
however, the more unjustified does it seem to people finally 
to set about defending themselves against some new, appar- 
ently isolated, although really constantly recurring, op- 
pression, especially if, taking everything together, so much 
more and greater misfortune has been borne silently and 
tolerantly without doing so. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 969 

Carthage's fall is the horrible picture of such a slow, 
self-earned execution of a nation. 

Consequently, Clausewitz, in his 'Drei Bekenntnissen? 
also singles out this thought in his incomparable manner 
and nails it down for all time, when he says: 

'That the blemish of a cowardly submission is never to 
be eradicated ' ; that this drop of poison in a nation's blood 
is passed along to posterity and will cripple and lay low 
the strength of generations to come; that, compared to 
this, 'even the extinction of freedom after a bloody and 
honorable struggle insures the rebirth of a nation and is 
the seed of life out of which a new tree some day will strike 
fast roots. 9 

Of course, a nation become dishonored and characterless 
will not care about that sort of teaching. For whoever 
cherishes it can certainly not sink so low, but he alone 
collapses who forgets or no longer wants to know it. So 
one must not expect embodiments of characterless sub- 
mission suddenly to repent in order, on the basis of intelli- 
gence and all human experience, to act otherwise than 
hitherto. On the contrary, these very people will hold 
every such lesson at a distance, until the nation is either 
once and for all accustomed to its slave's yoke, or until 



Belief in the possibility of international conciliation is taken 
to be a sign of deterioration. Pidder Lting writes: 'Every 
effort made towards cementing international ties, or bringing 
about international understanding and unification always 
takes its rise in individuals whose feelings are degenerate and 
rootless in a folkish sense, regardless of whether their motives 
are idealistic or economic. There is no international solidarity 
among plants, and there is none among animals. There is also 
none among men who found their notions on the laws of nature. 
The idea of "humanity " is an abstraction which cannot be 
translated into practical life.' Cf. Nationals ozialismus. 



970 MEIN KAMPF 

better forces push to the surface to wrest power from the 
hands of the infamous corrupters. In the first case these 
people contrive to feel not at all badly, since they not in- 
frequently are entrusted by the victors with the office of 
slave overseer, which these characterless types then exer- 
cise over their own nation, at that generally more heart- 
lessly than any alien beast imposed by the enemy himself. 

Now, the development since the year 1918 demonstrates 
to us that the hope of winning the victor's grace by means 
of voluntary submission unfortunately determines fatally 
the political insight and actions of the broad masses. I want 
to attach great importance to the emphasis on the broad 
masses, because I cannot bring myself to accept the con- 
viction that the actions and inactions of our national 
leaders can be attributed to the same corrupting delusion. 
Inasmuch as the leadership of our destiny has, since the 
end of the War, been in the hands of Jews, by this time 
entirely openly, one can really not agree that the cause of 
our misfortune is only insufficient knowledge, but on the 
contrary one must be convinced that conscious intent is 
ruining our nation. And as soon as one examines, from this 
viewpoint, the apparent insanity of our national foreign- 
policy leadership, it reveals itself to be a highly refined, 
icy logic serving the Jewish idea and struggle for world 
conquest. 

Thus, too, it appears comprehensible that a span of time 
equal to that which, between 1806 and 1813, sufficed to 
infuse a totally collapsed Prussia with new life-force and 
fighting determination, today has not only lapsed unused, 
but on the contrary has led to an ever greater debilitation 
of our State. 

Gustav Stresemann's wife was Jewish, but he himself was 
a pure 'Aryan.' His daughter and son-in-law committed 
suicide after Hitler's Machtergfeifung. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 971 

Seven years after November, 1918, the Treaty of Locarno 
was signed! 

The course of events involved was that already indicated 
above: neither the energy nor the courage to offer sudden 
resistance to the opponents' oppressive measures, which 
later recurred repeatedly, was eliminated immediately on 
the signing of the shameful armistice. The opponents were, 
however, too smart to demand too much at once. They 
limited their extortions always to that amount which in 
their own opinion and that of our German leadership 
would momentarily still be sufficiently tolerable so as not 
to compel any fear of an explosion of popular opinion. The 
more, however, such isolated dictates were endorsed and 
crammed down, the less it seemed justified, because of some 



The final conferences which led to the signing of the Locarno 
Pact were held during the period between October 5 and 16, 
1925. The signatory powers guaranteed the integrity of 
Germany's western boundaries, and subscribed to that provi- 
sion of the Versailles Treaty which demilitarized the Rhine- 
land. Special forms of arbitration to be resorted to in case 
disputes arose were agreed upon. In addition the promise was 
made that the Allied troops would evacuate Germany as soon 
as the feeling of 'mutual confidence' had made sufficient 
progress. German nationalists saw in the Pact a needless 
sacrifice of vital German interests. The powerful German 
National Party refused to endorse it, and the Cabinet headed 
by Dr. Hans Luther thereupon resigned. 

On March 7, 1936, Hitler repudiated the Locarno Pact and 
ordered German troops to reoccupy the Rhineland. Church 
bells rang out; a patriotic demonstration seemed to unite all 
Germans in an act of thanksgiving. The reasons given by the 
German government for this move were that German honor 
had been wounded by the French alliance with Russia, and 
that therefore Germany could underwrite no non-aggression 
pact until it was once more 'in full possession of its territory.' 



972 MEIN KAMPF 

isolated further extortion or proposed humiliation, sud- 
denly to do what had not been done in the case of so many 
others: to offer resistance. This is just the 'drop of poison 1 
of which Clausewitz speaks: the characterlessness which, 
once begun, must always intensify itself and which gradu- 
ally burdens every future decision like the worst heritage. 
It can become such a terrible dead weight that a nation can 
hardly shake it off again, but finally declines to the nature 
of a slave race. 

Thus there alternated in Germany disarmament and 
enslavement edicts, spiking of our political guns and eco- 
nomic piracy, to create finally that moral spirit which man- 
aged to see luck in the Dawes Plan and a success in the 
Locarno Treaty. In truth, viewing matters from a higher 
point of observation, one may speak of only one bit of 
luck in this misery, the luck that, although men could easily 
be deceived, Heaven, however, could not be bribed. For 
its blessing was withheld: need and woe have ever since 
been the constant companions of our people, and our one 
true ally is misery. Fate has made no exception in this case, 
either, but has given us our deserts. Since we no longer 
know how to treasure honor, it at least teaches us to ap- 
preciate freedom of the dinner plate. Men have already 



The French were aroused, but no preventive action was taken 
by their government. Mr. Anthony Eden, then British Foreign 
Minister, said of Hitler's action: 'It strikes a severe blow at 
the principle of the sanctity of treaties, which underlies the 
whole structure of international relations.' But barring a 
statement by Mr. Duff-Cooper to the effect that Britain's 
frontier was the Rhine, nothing was done in London to off-set 
Hitler's move. 

Against his will, Erzberger was designated by his govern- 
ment to sign the armistice. In response to queries concerning 
the attitude of the High Command to the proposed terms, 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 973 

learned to cry for bread, but one of these days they will 
still pray for freedom. 

Bitter and obvious as was our national collapse in the 
years after 1918, equally relentless and violent was the 
attack on everybody who, at that very time, ventured to 
prophesy what later invariably transpired. Miserably bad 
as was our national leadership then, it was equally con- 
ceited, and especially when it came to finishing off disagree- 
able because unpleasant prophets. Then we saw (and one 
can still see it today) the prize parliamentary dunderheads, 
honest-to-goodness saddlers and glovemakers not simply 
by profession either, which would in itself mean nothing 
suddenly elevated to the pedestal of statesmen, thence to 
talk down to the ordinary mortal. It made and makes, 
moreover, no difference that such a 'statesman' generally 
was shown up in the sixth month of his activity as the 
windiest bungler, the butt of the rest of the world's ridicule 
and derision, who does not know which way to turn, and has 
strikingly produced unmistakable evidence of his complete 
incompetence! No, that makes no difference at all, quite 
the contrary: the harder up the parliamentary statesmen 
of this Republic are for real achievements, the more furi- 
ously do they consequently hound those who expected 
achievements from them, who have the cheek to prove the 
failure of their activity thus far, and to predict its future 
failure. If, however one definitively nails down one of 
these parliamentary honorables and if this artisan of state- 
craft can really no longer lie his way out of the collapse 
of his entire activity and its results, then they find thou- 

hc received orders to attempt to hold out for some ameliora- 
tions, but to 'sign nevertheless.' The Treaty of Versailles was 
signed, after stormy displays of indignation in the Weimar 
Assembly, because the generals stated that any thought of 
resistance was futile. 



974 MEIN KAMPF 

sands upon thousands of reasons for excusing their failure, 
and will not admit one thing alone, that they are themselves 
the main reason for everything that is wrong. &lt;* 



It should have been generally understood as early as the 
winter of 1922-23 that, even after the conclusion of peace, 
France would act with iron thoroughness to achieve still 
the war aim which she originally envisioned. For really 
nobody can think that France risked her people's blood, in 
itself not too rich, for four and a half years in the most 
decisive struggle of her history, solely to have earlier dam- 
ages compensated for afterwards by reparations. Even 
Alsace-Lorraine would, in itself, not explain the energy of 

On November 4, 1922, Josef Wirth resigned as chancellor, 
following insistence that conservative members of his own 
party (the Center) would consent to the 'fulfillment policy* 
only if the government were enlarged to include wider repre- 
sentation of the Right. He was succeeded by Dr. Wilhelm 
Cuno, a business man who had been director of one of Ger- 
many's largest steamship companies. His appointment was 
bitterly attacked by the Social Democrats. There followed a 
Conference of Ministers in London, which broke down be- 
cause Germany was weakly represented, and because Poin- 
car6 had already decided upon invasion of the Ruhr to 'as- 
sure the safeguard of French interests.' On January n, 1923, 
French troops occupied Essen. On the igth, the German 
government ordered all civil servants to refuse to comply 
with French demands. It also prohibited shipments of coal to 
the Entente. These actions meant recourse to 'passive re- 
sistance, 9 which was placed under the unavowed supervision of 
the Rcichswchr. This acted on the knowledge that all more 
active measures were futile and could only provide France with 
an excuse for direct annexation of the region. 

Passive resistance, as carried on, was indubitably heroic. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 975 

the French conduct of the War, had there not also really 
been involved part of French foreign policy's truly big 
future political program. But that goal is: the dissolution of 
Germany into a hodge-podge of little States. It was for 
that that chauvinist France fought, incidentally, it is true, 
selling her people as real serfs to the international world 
Jews. 

This French war aim could already have been achieved 
by the War itself if, as Paris originally hoped, the struggle 
had taken place on German soil. Imagine that the bloody 
battles of the World War had been fought, not on the 
Somme, in Flanders, in the Artois, at Warsaw, Nijni- 
Novgorod, Kovno, Riga, and where not, but in Germany, 
on the Ruhr and the Main, on the Elbe, at Hanover, Leip- 
zig, Niirnberg, etc., and one must really concede that there 

Officials and workers co-operated in a spirit of patriotic self- 
sacrifice. But the financial resources of the German nation 
were not adequate to meet the strain. On September 26 of 
the same year (1923) the new German chancellor, Gustav 
Stresemann, ordered passive resistance to cease. The conflict 
had been marked by progressive devaluation of the German 
currency to a point where money ceased to have any value. 
On November 20, 1923, a dollar equaled 4,200,000,000 marks. 
At that rate, a few dollars could today wipe out the entire in- 
debtedness of the Third Reich! But the Ruhr district had 
been saved, the French had also been pushed to the brink 
of financial catastrophe, and sentiment in both England and 
the United States was now very sympathetic with Germany. 
Hitler had taken no part in the struggle. The reserve with 
which his Party had faced efforts to maintain the nation's 
integrity was later censured so that behind his criticism of 
the policies adopted there is a defensive maneuver. All during 
1923, extremists of the Right and the Left had planned re- 
volts in the belief that the government's forces were weak. 
In rapid succession Germany witnessed the Buchrucker putsch 



976 MEIN KAMPF 

would have been a chance to break up Germany. It is 
very questionable whether our young federal State would, 
for four and a half years, have survived the same test of 
strain as a France rigidly centralized for centuries and look- 
ing towards Paris alone as its undisputed center. That this 
violent struggle of nations went on outside the frontiers of 
our fatherland was not only the old army's immortal con- 
tribution, but also the greatest luck for the future of 
Germany. It is my rock-ribbed, sometimes inwardly 
anguishing, conviction that in any other case there would 
long since have been no German Reich, but only ' German 
States/ And for this reason alone did the blood of our 
fallen friends and brothers flow at least not entirely in vain, 
f So everything happened differently! It is true that 
Germany suddenly collapsed in November, 1918. But when 
catastrophe came to the homeland, the troops in the field 
were still deep in enemy country. France's first concern in 
those days was not Germany's dissolution, but rather this: 
how most quickly to get the German armies out of France 
and Belgium? And so the first job of the Paris State leader- 
ship in winding up the World War was to disarm the Ger- 
man troops and, if possible, drive them back to Germany 
immediately; and only after that could they devote them- 
selves to the realization of the original and true aim of the 
War. By this very fact France was positively crippled. 
The War had really ended victoriously for England with the 



(a short-lived revolt led by the commander of an East Prussian 
garrison), a Separatist putsch in the Rhineland, a Communist 
uprising in Saxony, and the Hitler putsch in Munich. If these 
uprisings had taken place at the same time, the result might 
have been civil war. But each was crushed separately, the 
Communist rebellion being put down with great severity. 
Thereafter a period of reconstruction began, which led to 
relative stablity and prosperity over a six-year period. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 977 

obliteration of Germany as a colonial and commercial power 
and her reduction to the rank of a second-class State. Not 
only did they have no interest in the complete blotting-out 
of the German State, but they even had every ground to 
want in Europe a future rival to France. Hence French 
policy had to continue by a determined peace-time labor 
what the War initiated, and Clemenceau's epigram, that 
for him, too, peace is but a continuation of war, acquired 
increased significance. 

On every possible pretext, they had constantly to shatter 
the joints of the Reich. By the imposition of ever new dis- 
armament notes on the one hand, and by the thus facilitated 
economic extortions on the other hand, Paris hoped slowly 
to loosen the Reich's joints. The more national honor with- 
ered in Germany, the earlier could economic pressure and 
unending want lead to destructive political results. Such 
a policy of political oppression and economic pillage, con- 
tinued for ten or twenty years, must gradually ruin even 
the best State organism, and under some circumstances 
demolish it. This, however, would be the final realization 
of the French war aim. 

In the winter of 1922-23 this should have been long recog- 
nized as the French purpose. In that case, however, there 
remained only two possible alternatives: one might either 
hope gradually to blunt the French will on the endurance 
of the German body national, or once and for all to do that 
which was bound to come in the end; that is, in one or 
another particularly crass instance to turn the Reich ship's 
helm about, and ram the enemy. This meant, of course, a 
life-and-death struggle, and life would have been a con- 
ceivable outcome only had it previously been contrived 
so to isolate France that this second fight need no longer 
be a struggle of Germany against the world, but a defense 
of Germany against a France constantly disturbing the 
world and its peace. 



978 MEIN KAMPF 

I emphasize and am firmly convinced that this second 
alternative must and will develop one way or another. I 
do not believe for a moment that France's intentions with 
respect to us can ever change; because they have their 
deepest motive nowhere but in the French nation's sense of 
self-preservation. Were I a Frenchman myself, and were 
France's greatness as dear to me as is Germany's sacred, 
then I could and would not act otherwise than Clemenceau 
himself did in the end. Only through the obliteration of 
Germany can a France, which is slowly withering, not only 
in its population figures, but especially in its racially best 
elements, maintain its world importance in the long run. 
French policy may make a thousand d6tours, but some- 
where at the end will always be this goal as the realization 
of its last desire and deepest yearning. But it is wrong to 
believe that a purely passive will, seeking only self-preserva- 
tion, can in the long run offer resistance to a not less power- 
ful but actively advancing will. As long as the eternal conflict 
between Germany and France is carried on only in the form of 
a German defense against French attack, it will never be de- 
cided, but Germany, from century to century, will lose one 
position after the other. Follow the wandering of the German 
language frontier from the twelfth century until today, and 
one will hardly be able longer to build on the success of an 
attitude and a development which has already done us so 
much damage. 

Only when this is fully understood in Germany so that 
the German nation's will to live is no longer allowed to 
waste itself in purely passive defensiveness, but is drawn 
together for a decisive, active settlement with France, and 
is thrown into a final, decisive battle for the vastest German 
final goals: only then will it be possible to bring to a con- 
clusion our eternal struggle with France, in itself so fruit- 
Jess; on condition, of course, that Germany really sees in 
France's destruction a means of subsequently and finally 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 979 

giving our nation a chance to expand elsewhere. Today we 
are eighty million Germans in Europe! That foreign policy 
will be acknowledged as correct only if, a bare century from 
now, two hundred and fifty million Germans are living on 
this continent, and then not squeezed together as factory 
coolies for the rest of the world, but : as peasants and workers 
mutually guaranteeing each other's life by their pro- 
ductivity. 

In December, 1922, the situation between Germany and 
France seemed once more to have sharpened to a crisis. 
France contemplated new, unprecedented extortions, and 
needed security for them. Political pressure had to precede 
economic pillage, and it seemed to the French that only a 
violent attack on the nerve center of all our German exist- 
ence would suffice to make our ' stubborn ' people bow to a 
sharper yoke than ever. In France it was hoped that, with 
the occupation of the Ruhr district, not only would Germany's 
moral spine finally be broken, but that economically we 
would also be thrown into an embarrassing situation in 
which willy-nilly we would have to accept every obligation, 
even the most burdensome. 

We had to bend or break. And right at the start Germany 
bent, to end up later by breaking completely. 

With the occupation of the Ruhr district, Fate once more 
offered its hand to the German nation to rise again. For 
what must at the first moment have seemed only the worst 
of ill fortune bore within it, on closer consideration, an 
infinitely promising chance to terminate all German 
suffering. 

Abroad, the occupation of the Ruhr finally really deeply 
estranged France from England, and not only from British 
diplomatic circles, which had concluded and maintained the 
French alliance only with the sober eyes of cold calculators, 
but also from the widest circles of the English people. 
English industry, especially, viewed with ill-concealed dis- 



980 MEIN KAMPF 

comfort this additional incredible reinforcement of French 
continental power. For not only did France now assume 
a position in Europe such as, considered purely from a 
politico-military viewpoint, not even Germany had previ- 
ously held, but it now also obtained an economic founda- 
tion which almost added a monopoly position to its capacity 
for economic competition. Europe's largest iron mines 
and coal fields were now united in the hands of a nation 
which, quite unlike Germany, had heretofore guarded its 
basic interests with as much determination as activity, and 
which newly reminded the whole world of its military 
dependability in the Great War. With France's occupation 
of the Ruhr coal fields, England's entire war achievement 
was again wrenched from her hands, and the victor was now 
no longer British diplomacy, diligent and nimble, but Mar- 
shal Foch and the France he represented. &lt; 
f In Italy, too, sentiment towards France, not exactly rosy 
anyway since the end of the War, changed into real hate. 
Now was the great historic moment in which yesterday's 
allies might become tomorrow's foes. If things came out 
otherwise, and the allies did not break into a sudden internal 
feud as in the second Balkan War, that was attributable 
solely to the fact that Germany possessed no Enver Pasha 
but a Reichs-Chancellor Cuno. 

Not only from the standpoint of foreign, but also from 
that of domestic, policy, the French invasion of the Ruhr 
embodied very big potentialities for Germany's future. A 
considerable portion of our people which, thanks to the in- 
cessant influence of its mendacious press, still regarded 
France as the crusader for progress and liberalism, was cured 
of this insanity once and for all. Just as the year 1914 drove 
the dream of international solidarity of peoples from the 
heads of our German workers and suddenly led them back 
into the world of eternal struggle, throughout which one 
being feeds on another and the death of the feebler means 
the life of the stronger, so, too, the spring of 1923. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 981 

As the Frenchman carried out his threats and finally 
began to move into the lower German coal region, at first 
only very cautiously and waveringly, a great, decisive hour 
of fate struck for Germany. If, at this moment, our nation 
had combined a change of sides with a revision of its pre- 
vious attitude, then the German Ruhr district could have 
become for France the Moscow of Napoleon. There were, 
indeed, only two alternatives: either one permitted this, too, 
to be perpetuated on oneself and did nothing, or one moved the 
German people as it contemplated the region of fiery smelters 
and smoky furnaces, as well as of fiery wills, to end this 
eternal shame, and to prefer to accept the terror of the moment 
rather than bear an endless terror any longer. 

The immortal service of the then Reichs-Chancellor 
Cuno was to have discovered a third course, and the still 
more famous contribution of our German bourgeois party 
world was to have admired and followed it. 

I want here first to submit the second course to as brief 
as possible a consideration : 

With the occupation of the Ruhr district France made 
a resounding break in the Versailles Treaty. She thereby 
also put herself in opposition to a number of signatory 
powers, more especially England and Italy. France could 
no longer hope for any support whatsoever from these 
States for her own selfish plunder expedition. She was 
consequently obliged to bring this adventure and it was 
at first just that to whatever happy end by herself. For 
a German nationalist government there could have been 
but a single course, that is, the course prescribed by honor. 

Passive resistance was in the main the achievement of the 
Free and Christian Trade Unions, which were also responsible 
for the suppression of Separatist disturbances in the Western 
provinces. Hitler's chief meaning here is, of course, that Ger- 
many's failure to support his Munich putsch idea was a great 
mistake. 



982 MEIN KAMPF 

It was certain that France at first could not be opposed by 
active, armed violence; but it was necessary to be clear 
that every negotiation which does not have power behind 
it would be ridiculous and fruitless. Without a chance to 
resist actively, it was senseless to take the position: 'we 
will not negotiate ' ; but it was still more senseless to go to 
negotiations anyway in the end, without having, in the 
meanwhile, fitted oneself out with power. 

Not that one could have prevented the Ruhr occupation 
by military measures. Only a madman could advise such a 
decision. But under the influence of this French action, 
and during the time of its execution, thought should and 
might have been given to insure, regardless of the Treaty 
of Versailles which France herself had broken, those military 
means which later could have been given negotiators to 
carry with them. For it was clear from the outset that, 
some day, a decision about this district occupied by France 
would be made at some conference table or other. But it 
should have been equally clear that even the best nego- 
tiators can achieve slight success as long as the ground on 
which they stand and the chair on which they sit is not the 
shield arm of their nation. A feeble little tailor cannot 
argue with athletes, and a defenseless negotiator must 
always tolerate the sword of Brennus on the hostile side 
of the balance if he has not his own to throw in as a counter- 
weight. Or was it not really a pity to have to watch the 
comedies of negotiations which, since the year 1918, in- 
variably preceded the recurring dictates? This debasing 
spectacle presented before the whole world, in which, as 
though to mock us, we were first invited to the conference 
table, in order there to be presented with decisions and 
programs long since prepared, which, it is true, might be 
talked about, but which in advance had to be regarded as 
unalterable. It is true that our negotiators were above the 
most modest average in hardly a single case, and that they 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 983 

justified only too well, on the whole, the impudent assertion 
of Lloyd George, who mockingly remarked about ex-Reichs- 
Chancellor Simon, 'that the Germans did not understand 
how to select men of spirit as leaders and representatives.' 
But even geniuses would have achieved but little in the 
face of the hostile nation's determined will of power and 
his own nation's wretched defenselessness. 

But whoever wanted to grasp the French occupation of 
the Ruhr in the spring of 1923 as the occasion for a restora- 
tion of military means had first to present to the nation 
those spiritual weapons, to strengthen its will power, and 
to undo the corrupters of this most valuable national 
force. 

Just as in the year 1918 bloody vengeance was taken for 
the fact that in 1914 and 1915 we did not proceed to crush 
the head of the Marxist serpent underfoot, so, too, the most 
tragic vengeance would be taken if in the spring of 1923 the 
opportunity was not seized to forbid the exercise of their 
craft to the Marxist traitors and national murderers. 

Every notion of real resistance to France was complete 
nonsense without a declaration of war against those forces 
which, five years earlier, had smashed German resistance on 
the battlefields from the inside. Only bourgeois souls could 
work their way around to the incredible opinion that Marx- 
ism had, perhaps, now become something else, and that the 
canaille of bosses who in 1918 coldly trampled over two 
million corpses, the better to scramble into the various 
seats of government, were now, in the year 1923, ready to do 
their bit for the national conscience. An incredible and re- 
ally nonsensical notion, the hope that the one-time traitors 
would suddenly turn into fighters for German freedom. 
They had no idea of any such thing! A Marxist abandons 
treason as readily as a hyena abandons carrion. Please let 
us not hear that most stupid of objections, that so many 
workers once really did bleed for Germany. German work- 



984 MEIN KAMPF 

ers, yes, but then they were no longer international Marx- 
ists. Had the German working class in the year 1914 still 
been composed of persons who were Marxists in their in- 
ner attitude, the War would have come to an end in three 
weeks. Germany would have collapsed before the first 
soldier had even put one foot across the frontier. No, the 
fact that the German nation was still fighting then 
proved that the Marxist madness had not yet been able to 
eat really deep. But to just the extent that the German 
worker and the German soldier again fell into the hands of 
the Marxist leaders during the War, to just that extent was 
he lost to the fatherland. If, at the beginning of the War and 
during the War, twelve or fifteen thousand of these Hebraic 
corrupters of the nation had been subjected to poison gas 
such as had to be endured in the field by hundreds of 
thousands of our very best German workers of all classes 
and professions, then the sacrifice of millions at the front 
would not have been in vain. On the contrary: twelve 
thousand scoundrels opportunely eliminated and perhaps 
a million orderly, worth-while Germans had been saved for 
the future. But it is also part of bourgeois * statecraft' to 
deliver millions to a bloody end on the field of battle with- 
out blinking an eyelash while regarding ten or twelve 
thousand traitors, tricksters, usurers, and swindlers ad a 
priceless national shrine, and hence publicly to proclaim 
their inviolability. Indeed, one cannot tell whether this 
bourgeois world is richer in blockheadedness, feebleness, and 
cowardice, or thoroughly dissipated principles. It is truly 
a class doomed by Fate to decline, but which, unfortunately, 
is dragging a whole nation down with itself.**- 

In the year 1923, however, the situation was entirely like 
that of 1918. No matter what kind of resistance was chosen, 
the first premise had, in any case, to be the elimination of 
the Marxist poison from our body national. And, according 
to my conviction, the very first task of a really nationalist 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 985 

government was then to seek and find forces determined to 
declare a war of annihilation against Marxism, and to give 
these forces a free hand; it was its duty not to prate about 
the idiocy of Maw and order' at a moment in which the 
fatherland's foreign foe was delivering the most annihilat- 
ing blow, while at home treason lurked at every street 
corner. No, a really nationalist government should then 
have desired turmoil and disorder had a principled reckon- 
ing with our nation's Marxist mortal enemies finally been 
possible and realized only out of such a chaos. This neg- 
lected, every notion of resistance, of no matter what sort, 
was pure insanity. 

An accounting of such genuine world historical momen- 
tousness, of course, does not occur as the result of a scheme 
of this or that privy councillor or dried-up bureaucrat, but 
in line with mundane laws of life, which are and remain the 
struggle for existence. It should have been realized that a 
steely, healthy body national has often grown out of the 
most bloody civil wars, while the rottenness of artificially 
nurtured conditions of peace has more than once stunk to 
high Heaven. National destinies are not altered with kid 
gloves. Consequently, in the year 1923, the fiercest grip was 
in order for the grasping of the vipers feeding off our body 
national. Only after it was forthcoming would preparation 
of an active defense have had meaning. 

Over and over I shouted myself hoarse in those days, and 
tried to clarify, at least for so-called nationalist circles, what 
was at stake in the situation and that there would inevita- 
bly be an end like that of 1918 if the same mistakes were 
made as in the year 1914 and the ensuing years. I begged 
repeatedly that Destiny be given free rein and our move- 
ment allowed a chance to settle with Marxism; but I 
preached to deaf ears. Everybody, including the head of 
the defense forces, understood everything better, until 
finally they were confronted by the most miserable capitula- 
tion of all time. 



986 MEIN KAMPF 

Then did I know in my very heart that the German 
bourgeoisie had reached the end of its mission and is called 
to no further task. Then did I see how all these parties were 
squabbling with Marxism only because of competitive 
jealousy without seriously seeking to annihilate it ; they had 
finally reconciled themselves inwardly with the father- 
land's general decline, and what moved them was only a 
deep concern that they themselves have a place at the 
wake. It was for that alone that they were still ' struggling.' 

In those days I admit it openly I conceived the 
most profound admiration for that great man south of the 
Alps who, full of ardent love for his people, would not deal 
with the internal enemies of Italy, but pushed their anni- 
hilation in every way and by all means. What will rank 
Mussolini among the great of this earth is the determi- 
nation not to share Italy with Marxism, but to save the 
fatherland from it by dooming internationalism to anni- 
hilation. 

How wretchedly dwarfish our German State yes-men ap- 
peared in contrast, and how nauseating it is when these 
nonentities undertake, with boorish conceit, to criticize a 
man a thousand times as great; and how painful it is to 
think that this goes on in a country which, barely half a 
century ago, might still call a Bismarck its leader! 

The fate of any active Ruhr resistance in 1923 was de- 
cided in advance because of this bourgeois attitude and ten- 
derness towards Marxism. To want to fight France with 
the deadly enemy in one's own ranks would have been pure 
idiocy. What was then done was shadow boxing at best, 
undertaken in order to give some satisfaction to the nation- 
alist element in Germany, to calm the 'seething national 
soul/ in reality to dupe it. Had there been serious thought 
about what was being done, it must have been recognized 
that a nation's strength lies primarily not in its weapons 
but in its will, and that, before conquering alien foes, the 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 987 

domestic foe must be wiped out; otherwise, should victory 
not reward the first day of struggle, beware. The moment 
even the shadow of defeat falls on a nation not freed of in- 
ternal enemies, its force of resistance will collapse and the 
foe will finally be the victor. 

That could have been foretold as early as the spring of 
1923. Let us not even discuss the dubiousness of a military 
success against France ! For if the result of German action 
with respect to the French Ruhr invasion had been simply 
the annihilation of Marxism internally, success would 
thereby already have been ours. A Germany liberated 
from this deadly enemy of its existence and its future 
would have possessed a potency which not even the whole 
world could longer have strangled. On the day when Marx- 
ism is smashed in Germany, its chains will really be broken 
forever. For never in our history have we been conquered 
by the force of our foes, but always by our own vices and 
the enemy in our own camp alone. 

Inasmuch as the German State leadership then was in- 
capable of pulling itself together for such an heroic deed, it 
really had left, from any sensible standpoint , only the first 
course, that is, the course of doing nothinf at all, but of 
letting matters run along just as they were. 

But in that great hour, Heaven presented the German 
nation with a great man, too, Herr von Cuno. He was not 
exactly a professional statesman or politician, and, of 
course, still less one by birth, but he represented a kind of 
political hack needed solely to execute definite plans; -for 
the rest, he was more familiar with business matters. Con- 
sequently a curse for Germany, because this politicizing 
merchant regarded even politics as a business enterprise 
and oriented his activity accordingly. 

'France has occupied the Ruhr district; what is in the 
Ruhr district? Coal. Well, then France has occupied the 
Ruhr district because of the coal. 9 Then what was more 



988 MEIN KAMPF 

natural for Heir von Cuno than the notion of striking, so 
that the French would get no coal, whereupon, in the opin- 
ion of Heir von Cuno, they would certainly vacate the Ruhr 
one of these days since it was bad business. That was about 
the train of thought of this 'eminent' 'national' 'states- 
man,' who was permitted to address 'his people' at Stutt- 
gart and other places and whom this people quite blissfully 
admired. 

f For a strike, however, they naturally needed the Marx- 
ists, too, for it was, indeed, primarily the workers who had 
to strike. So it was necessary to bring the workers into a 
united front with all other Germans (and in the brain of 
this sort of bourgeois statesman the worker is always syn- 
onymous with the Marxists). In those days the glow of 
these putrid bourgeois party hacks about the genius of such 
a slogan was really something to see! Simultaneously 
nationalistic and a product of genius at last they really 
had what they had at bottom been looking for all the time! 
The bridge to Marxism had been found and the nationalist 
swindler was now enabled to stretch out a loyal hand to the 
international traitor, making a 'German' (' teutscher') face 
and spouting nationalist phrases. And the traitor seized the 
hand with the utmost haste. For much as Cuno needed the 
Marxist leaders for his 'united front? the Marxist leaders 
needed Cuno's money. Thus both sides were helped along. 
Cuno got his united front of nationalist chatterers and anti- 
nationalist rogues, and the international fakirs got State 
pay for their supreme mission of struggle, i.e., to wreck the 
national economy, and this time at the expense of the State 
itself. An immortal conception, to save a nation by means 
of a subsidized general strike, and certainly just the slogan 
to which even the most indifferent ne'er-do-well can agree 
with the greatest enthusiasm. 

// is universally known that a nation cannot be freed by 
prayer. But it had first to be proved historically whether, per- 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 989 

haps, it could not be freed to idle. Had Herr von Cuno at that 
time, instead of catting for a subsidized general strike and es- 
tablishing this as the foundation of a * united front,' exacted 
just two hours' more work from every German, then this 
swindling ' united front ' would have washed up on the third 
day. But nations are not freed by doing nothing, but by sacri- 
fices. 

Of course, this so-called passive resistance did not last 
very long. For only a person completely alien to war could 
flatter himself that he could frighten armies of occupation 
by such ridiculous means. But that would have been the 
only sense to an action whose costs ran into millions and 
which substantially helped level the national defense to its 
very foundations. 

The French, of course, were at this point able to make 
themselves at home in the Ruhr district with a certain inner 
calm, inasmuch as they observed the opposition resort to 
that sort of means. They had, in fact, obtained from us the 
best recipe for bringing a stubborn civilian population to 
reason had its conduct constituted any serious threat tc 
the occupation authorities. How quickly, indeed, did we 
rout the Belgian guerrillas and make the seriousness of the 
situation clear to the civilian population when, nine years 
earlier, the German armies ran the danger of serious damage 
from their activities. As soon as passive resistance had be- 
come really dangerous to France in the Ruhr, the investing 
troops would, with playful ease, have put a ghastly finish to 
this quite childish mischief in less than a week. For, in the 
last analysis, the decisive question is always this: What is 
to be done if passive resistance finally really gets on the 
opponent's nerves and he launches a fight against it with 
brute force? Is one determined to offer further resistance? 
If so, bear, for better or worse, the most violent, bloodiest 
hounding. In that case one faces what one faces in active 
resistance, namely, struggle. Hence every so-called passive 



990 MEIN KAMPF 

resistance has real significance only if backed up by a de- 
termination, if need be, to continue resistance by open 
struggle or by means of clandestine guerrilla warfare. In 
general, all such struggles depend upon a conviction of a 
chance of success. As soon as a besieged fortress hard 
pressed by foes is compelled to abandon all hope of raising 
the siege, it practically surrenders, especially if the defend- 
ers are still attracted by the certainty of going on living as 
an alternative to probable death. Deprive the garrison of a 
beleaguered fortress of its belief in the possibility of libera- 
tion, and all the defense forces collapse at once. 

Consequently, passive resistance in the Ruhr, in view of 
the end results which it could and must have produced had 
it really succeeded, could have had meaning only if an active 
front had been building back of it. Then, certainly, there 
would have been no limit to what might have been exacted 
from our people. Had each of these Westphalians known 
that the homeland was raising an army of eighty or one 
hundred divisions, the French would have walked on 
thorns. There are always more courageous men ready to 
sacrifice themselves for a success than for an obvious 
futility. 

That was a classic case which compelled us National 
Socialists to adopt a position against a so-called nationalist 
slogan. And we did it, too. During those months I was not 
seldom attacked by people whose entire nationalist senti- 
ment was simply a mixture of stupidity and superficial pre- 
tense, who were merely joining in the shouting because it 
afforded them the pleasant thrill of suddenly being able to 

'Eighty or a hundred divisions' in a Germany without food, 
arms or discipline certainly entered no one's head at that time. 
The passage is dialectic to combat the accusation that his 
conduct had hampered rather than aided the success of Ger- 
many. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 991 

act nationally without any danger. I regarded this most 
pitiful of all united fronts as the most ridiculous phenome- 
non, and history proved me right. 

As soon as the trade unions had just about filled their 
coffers with Cuno's money, and passive resistance faced the 
issue of going over from sluggish defense to active offense, 
the red hyenas immediately stampeded from the nationalist 
sheep herd and became again what they always were. Herr 
von Cuno quietly stole back to his ships, but Germany had 
become richer by an experience and poorer by a great hope. 

Down to late midsummer many officers, and certainly 
not the worst, did not sincerely believe in such a disgrace- 
ful development. All hoped that, if not openly, then cov- 
ertly, preparations would be undertaken to transform this 
most impudent French incursion into a turning-point in 
German history. There were many even in our ranks who 
put confidence at least in the Reich army. And this con- 
viction was so vital as decisively to determine the actions 
and especially the education of innumerable young people. 

But when the disgraceful collapse and capitulation in 
such a crushing, ignominious fashion followed the sacrifice 
of millions of marks and thousands of young Germans (who 
had been stupid enough to take the promises of the Reich 
leaders seriously), rebellion flared up in a blaze against such 
a betrayal of our unfortunate nation. Then suddenly, 
bright and clear, there awoke in the heads of millions the 
conviction that only the most radical elimination of the en- 
tire ruling system could save Germany. 

Never was the moment riper, never did it cry more im- 
periously for such a solution than at the moment when, on 
the one side, open treachery to the fatherland showed itself 
shamelessly, while, on the other, a nation was economically 
delivered to lingering death from starvation. Since the 
State itself trampled on all the laws of loyalty and trust, 
mocked the rights of its citizens, swindled millions of its 



992 MEIN KAMPF 

truest sons out of their sacrifice, and robbed millions of 
others of their last penny, it no longer had any right to ex- 
pect from its subjects anything but hate. And one way or 
another this hate for the corrupters of people and fatherland 
pressed towards an explosion. At this point I can only refer 
to the closing sentence of my last speech in the great trial 
in the spring of 1924:^ 

'The judges of this State may calmly condemn us for 
what we did then, but History, as the goddess of a higher 
truth and a better law, will nevertheless some day laugh- 
ingly tear up this verdict, to acquit us all of guilt and sin.' 
t She will, however, then also call to the seat of judgment 
those in power who today trample on right and law, who 
lead our nation into misery and ruin, and who, in the mis- 
fortune of the fatherland, valued their own ego more than 
the life of the common wealth. &lt; 

I do not intend here to portray those events which led to 
and determined November 8, 1923. I do not want to, be- 
cause I see therein nothing promising for the future and 
above all because it is futile to reopen wounds which seem 
today hardly healed; because it is, in addition, futile to 
speak of causes and guilt among men all of whom, perhaps 
in the depths of their hearts, love their nation equally well, 
and only missed the common road or failed to understand 
each other concerning it. 

t In view of the great common misfortune of our father* 
land, too, I do not now want to hurt any further and per- 
haps separate those who, some day in the future, will have 
to build the great united front of those who are truly Ger- 
man at heart against the common front of our national foes. 
Because I know that some day the time will come when even 
people who were hostile to us will think with veneration of 
those who took the bitter road of death for their German 
nation. 



EMERGENCY DEFENSE AS A RIGHT 993 

At the end of this second volume I want to bring before 
the eyes of our adherents and of the crusaders for our doc- 
trine those eighteen heroes to whom I dedicated the first 
volume of my work, as those heroes who most consciously 
sacrificed themselves for all of us. They must always recall 
the weak and those who become irresolute back to the ful- 
fillment of their duty, to a duty which they themselves ful- 
filled with the best faith and despite all consequences. And 
I want also to reckon among them that man, who, as one of 
the best, by words and by thoughts and finally by deeds, 
dedicated his life to the awakening of his, of our nation: 

Dietrich Eckart &lt;+ 



The 'eighteen heroes' have since come into their own. 
Annual ceremonies honor them, and their names must be 
conned by rote in German schools. 

A characteristic poem by Eckart may be reproduced here 
from Der Hammer (September, 1914): 

Vater in Himmel, entschlossen zum Tode, 
Knie'n wir vor Dir, O antworte nun! 
1st noch ein Volk, das dem hehren Gebote 
Redlicher dient als wir Deutschen es tun? 

Gibt es ein solches? Dann, ewiger, spende 
Schicksalsgewaltig ihm Lorbeer und Sieg. 
Vater, Du laechelst? O Glueck ohne Endc! 
Auf ! und hinein in den heiligen Krieg. 

Father in Heaven, resolved to the death 
Kneel we before Thee, O answer us, then! 
Does aught other people Thine awful command 
More loyally follow than we Germans do? 

Is there one such? Then, Eternal One, send 
Laurel and victory to it, mighty with fate. 
Father, Thou smilest? O joy without end! 
Up! and onward, onward, to the holy crusade. 



CONCLUSION 



t^^^N NOVEMBER 9, 1923, in the fourth year of its 
l^^Jexistence, the National Socialist German Workers' 
Party was dissolved and forbidden throughout the 
entire territory of the Reich. Today, in November, 1926, 
it stands again before us, free through the whole Reich, 
stronger and internally more stable than ever before. 

Not all the persecutions of the movement and of its in- 
dividual leaders, not all the defamations and slanders, have 
been able to do it any harm. The correctness of its ideas, 
the purity of its purposes, the readiness of its adherents to 
sacrifice, have thus far enabled it to emerge from all oppres- 
sions stronger than ever. 

If, in the world of our contemporary parliamentary cor- 
ruption, it attends more and more to the deepest meaning 
of its struggle and feels itself and conducts itself as the pure 
embodiment of the values of race and personality, it will, in 
consequence of an almost mathematical law, some day bear 
victory from its struggle. Just as Germany must inevitably 
win its rightful place on this earth, should it be led and or- 
ganized on similar principles. 

A State which, in the epoch of race poisoning, dedicates 
itself to the cherishing of its best racial elements, must 
some day be master of the world. 

Let the adherents of our movement never forget this, 
should ever the greatness of the sacrifice lead them to a 
fearful comparison with the possible triumph.