				Part 1 of 4. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and former HP CEO Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 20, 2015:
&#8230;You know, in my campaign for the presidency, I am developing somewhat of a reputation for going anywhere and speaking to anyone. 
And earlier this week, I was on The View. I got into a little tussle with Whoopi Goldberg about life. That was fun. Actually it was. 
But early on in the program, I was asked a question basically, &#8220;Why are you a conservative?&#8221; And I said this, &#8220;I am a conservative because I know no one of us is any better than any other one of us.&#8221; 
All of us &#8211; all of us &#8211; have God-given gifts. Each of us has the capacity and the desire to live a life of dignity and purpose and meaning. 
And our values, our principles, and our policies work better to lift everyone up. 
In the course of this campaign, I&#8217;ve been asked a lot of questions, and I&#8217;ve answered a lot of questions from the media. 
And one interesting question I was asked on Saturday morning on national television was whether or not a woman&#8217;s hormones prevent her from serving in the Oval Office. [Laughter]
So ladies, I&#8217;m going to ask you a little question here. It&#8217;s a quiz. Can you think of any instance in which a man&#8217;s judgment might be clouded by his hormones? [Laughter] Any at all? Including in the Oval Office? 
Hillary Clinton must not be President of these United States but not because she is a woman. Hillary Clinton must not be President of these United States because she is not trustworthy, because she lacks a track record of leadership, and because her policies are bad for the people of this nation. 
And we have better have a nominee on that general election debate stage who will not be afraid to throw punches all night long. 
When I was a little girl one Sunday morning, my mother looked at me and said, &#8220;What you are is God&#8217;s gift to you. What you make of yourself is your gift to God.&#8221;
I did not feel particularly gifted as a young girl or a young woman. And so my mother&#8217;s words were like a promise to me that I had God-given gifts, and they were a challenge as well that I needed to find them and use them. 
I have traveled and lived and worked, done business and charity and policy work all over the world, and I know with absolute certainty that it is only in the United States of America that a young woman can start out as I did &#8211; typing and filing and answering the phones for a little 9 person real estate business and go on to become the chief executive of the largest technology company in the world and run for the presidency of the United States. 
That is only possible in this great nation. 
And it&#8217;s possible, I think, because our founders knew what my mother taught me. Our founders knew that everyone has God-given gifts. Our founders knew that everyone has potential. 
I have learned over and over and over in my life that indeed everyone does have God-given gifts and potentiall, usually far more than they realize. 
And our founders built a nation on this what was a radical idea at the time that here in this nation you have a right to fulfill your potential. That is what they meant when they said life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That we have the right to fulfill our potential and that right comes from God and should not be taken away by man or government. 
&#8230;
				Part 2 of 4. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and former HP CEO Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 20, 2015:
We are not a perfect nation but the truth is more things have been more possible for more people from more places in this great nation than in any other time in human history and anywhere else on the face of the planet because of that profound conservative belief that all of us are equal in the eyes of God and that each of us has God-given gifts. 
You see, honestly, I think that is one of the fights we have to have in the 2016 election. 
I do not think progressives share our belief in the gifts and the dignity of each and every human life. 
Remember when the head of the Chicago Public Teachers&#8217; Union said this &#8211; they were striking. The issue of course was accountability in the classroom and the head of the teachers&#8217; union in Chicago said &#8211; and I am quoting &#8211; &#8220;We can not be held accountable for the performance of students in our classroom because too many of them are poor and come from broken families.&#8221; 
What was she saying? That if you&#8217;re poor and you come from a broken family, you can&#8217;t learn. You don&#8217;t have God-given gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not what we believe. 
But progressives believe some are smarter than others, some are better than others, and some are going to take care of others. 
This is the battle that we must have &#8211; to restore people&#8217;s understanding of what conservatism truly means and how important faith really is in this nation. 
You know, I grew up a little girl of faith but over the course of my life, I must tell you my faith became more abstract and I came to a place in my life where I sort of thought of God as &#8211; I don&#8217;t know &#8211; a big CEO, you know? He understood basically strategically what was going on but he didn&#8217;t understand the details of each and every one of our lives. 
And through a pastor friend of mine, I came to rediscover a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. 
One morning, I woke and I said, &#8220;You know, if human beings can create something as sophisticated as the global positioning system where literally billions and billions and billions of moving objects are kept track of in precise ways every single millisecond of every single day. If humankind can create this, then yes indeed. Jesus Christ knows the personal details of each and every one of our lives.&#8221;
And that personal relationship with Christ would carry me through a long and difficult battle with cancer, and I came to know that there are blessings in all passages. 
And the blessing in that long passage was that I came to learn that life is not measured in time. Life is measured in love and moments of grace and positive contribution. 
And when my husband, Frank, and I&#8230;he and I have been married for 30 years, when we went through the tragedy of the loss of our younger daughter, Laurie, to the demons of addiction, that personal relationship with Jesus Christ saved us again. 
And I learned in that terrible passage that all we control in life is our own choices. 
A choice, first and foremost, of how to use our God-given gifts. 
I believe that we are at a pivotal moment in our nation&#8217;s history. We have come to a place where the status quo of government has gone on for way too long. 
And we have come to a place as well where truthfully the potential of the people of this great nation is crushed by the weight, the power, the corruption, the ineptitude of the government of this nation. 
And ladies and gentlemen, here is the truth. This has been going on for a very long time. Every government agency has gotten bigger and gotten more money for 40 plus years under, sadly, Republicans and Democrats alike. 
We have been tangling people&#8217;s lives up in webs of dependence from which they cannot escape even if they want to for a very long time. 
We have been failing to serve those who serve us. We have been failing our veterans for at least two decades &#8211; a shame and a stain on our nation&#8217;s honor. 
&#8230;
				Part 3 of 4. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and former HP CEO Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 20, 2015:
We are witnessing now the destruction of opportunity in America.
For the first time in U.S. history, we are now destroying more businesses than we are creating. 
Think about that. We are destroying more businesses than we are creating. And guess what? It&#8217;s not big business that&#8217;s hurting. 
Big business really does great with big government. It&#8217;s called crony capitalism. 
And the bigger and more powerful, the more corrupt the big federal government gets, the better it is for big business because they can hire the accountants, the lobbyists, the lawyers to manage all that complexity. 
Think about the consequence of Dodd-Frank. 10 banks on Wall Street too big to fail have become 5 banks on Wall Street too big to fail. And meanwhile thousands of community banks have been driven out of business. 
And the businesses we are destroying are the businesses that give most people in this nation their opportunity. 
So when you get yourself out of that web of dependence, where do you go? 
Most Americans go to a small business, a family-owned business. Like the one that I started out in. That 9 person real estate firm where I typed and filed. My husband, Frank, started out as a tow truck driver in a family-owned body shop in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
It is the small, these family-owned businesses, new businesses that create two-thirds of the jobs in this nation and employ half the people. So we are destroying opportunity with the weight of this government just as we are tangling people&#8217;s lives up in those webs of dependence. 
Everyday, we open the newspaper and see yet another story of government ineptitude. 
Yes, it is a strong word. But honestly, when the TSA fails 96% of the time, what else to call it? When the IRS in 2015 said so sorry, we can&#8217;t answer taxpayers&#8217; questions because we need more money to man the phones. That is called ineptitude. 
When we learned that government labs have been shipping live Anthrax around for 10 years, that is called ineptitude. 
It goes on and on and on. And when we learn that the Office of Personnel Management has been breached by the Chinese and our most sensitive information stolen, let me tell you why that&#8217;s called ineptitude. 
I chaired the advisory board at the Central Intelligence Agency for several years. I&#8217;ve advised Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security and State. I can tell you that we have known with certainty for at least the last 12 years that the Chinese have been trying to hack into our federal government systems and databases. We can do this. We&#8217;re the most powerful nation in the world. But not with a government that has grown so bureaucratic that it is inept at its most basic functions. 
Why has this gone on for so long? Why have we come to settle for this? 
Recall that ours was intended to be a citizen government. It is what by, for, and of the people means. 
82% of the American people in a recent poll &#8211; 82% of the American people now believe we have a professional, political class that is more focused on the preservation of its title, privilege, prestige and stature than it is on doing the people&#8217;s work. 
You know, sometimes people aren&#8217;t able, aren&#8217;t courageous enough, aren&#8217;t experienced enough to challenge the status quo. But ladies and gentlemen, we now need a leader in the Oval Office that understands their job is to challenge the status quo of this vast, powerful, bureaucratic, corrupt, inept federal government. 
And of course, nowhere is leadership more missing because you know in the end that is what leadership is. What is leadership? Challenging the status quo. Nowhere is leadership more necessary than in the world today because when America is not leading, the world is a very dangerous and a very tragic place. 
I know more world leaders on this stage today than anyone else running with the possible exception of Hillary Clinton, only I didn&#8217;t do photo ops. 
I&#8217;ve sat very close to Vladimir Putin, had a long conversation with him, and if you spend any time with him at all, you will know that he will not be dissuade by a red gimmicky red reset button. 
I have sat in Bibi Netanyahu&#8217;s office and talked with him five years ago in a private meeting about the danger that Iran represents. 
I have done business with Chinese leadership for decades. I know all of our Arab allies, leaders all throughout this world. 
And so ladies and gentlemen, on day one in the Oval Office, I would make two very important phone calls. Important in and of themselves and important as symbols as well. 
The first phone call would be to Bibi Netanyahu to reassure him the United States of America will stand with the state of Israel. 
That phone call is important in and of itself but guess what? Every ally we have in this nation looks at the disrespect with which we are treating Israel and they wonder how much their own friendship with us is worth. 
&#8230;
				Part 4 of 4. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and former HP CEO Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 20, 2015:
And the second phone call I would make is to the Supreme Leader of Iran. He might not take my phone call but he would get the message. 
And the message would be this: New deal. New deal. Whatever the deal is you&#8217;ve got a new deal, and it is this: Until and unless you open up every nuclear facility to full, unfettered, anytime, anywhere inspections, until you open up every uranium enrichment facility to the same, we will make it as difficult as possible for you to move money around the global financial system. We can do that. 
Once again, a phone call important in and of itself but a phone call that reaches every adversary we have in this world and says, &#8220;The United States of America will confront our adversaries.&#8221; 
By the way, I wouldn&#8217;t call Vladimir Putin at all. We&#8217;ve talked way too much to him. 
Instead, what I would do is just begin quickly, urgently rebuilding the Sixth Fleet, rebuilding the missile defense program, conducting military exercises in the Baltics and arming the Ukrainians. 
And finally with regard to ISIS, you know, President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton, they are continuously putting a false choice in front of us. 
The false choice is this: It takes tens of thousands of boots on the ground if you don&#8217;t agree with us. 
It&#8217;s simply untrue. We have a lot of allies in the Arab world that understands this is their fight. They have asked us for very specific things. 
King Abdullah of Jordan, a man I&#8217;ve known for a long time, is asking us for bombs and materials that we have not provided them. The Kurds have asked us to arm them; we have not done it. The Egyptians are asking us to share intelligence; we are not. 
Instead of holding a Camp David summit to talk about a bad deal with Iran, I would hold a Camp David summit with our Arab allies and ask them what they need from us to fight this fight and defeat this evil once and for all. 
We need someone in the Oval Office who understands how the economy works, who understands how the world works and who&#8217;s in it, who understands how bureaucracies work because our government has become one giant bloated unaccountable bureaucracy, who understands how technology works because technology is a tool. 
And most importantly of all, we need someone who understands what leadership is. It is a leader&#8217;s job to challenge the status quo. 
Leadership is not about power. It is not about position. It is not about title. It is not about living at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. 
The highest calling in leadership is to unlock potential in others and now we need a leader who will unlock the potential of this great nation. 
And let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, that people of sincere faith make better leaders because our faith gives us humility. We know that no one of us is any better than any other one of us. 
Our faith gives us empathy. We know that every one of us can fall and each of us can be redeemed and our faith gives us optimism. 
We know that things can be better. Every problem we have is self-inflicted. Every wound we can be healed. 
But we need leadership and we need citizenship. 
I think everyday as I know you do, as I travel this country, I sense deep disquiet. People feel we are losing something. 
And so I feel everyday when I talk to the people of this great nation, of the nation we can be and must be, and I think of Lady Liberty and Lady Justice. So conjure them up in your mind. 
Picture Lady Liberty. She stands tall and strong. She is clear eyed and resolute. She does not shield her eyes from the realities of the world but she faces outward into the world which is the way America must always face and she holds her torch high because she knows she is a beacon of hope in a troubled world. 
And Lady Justice. She holds a sword in one hand because she is a fighter. She is a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great. She holds a scale in the other hand. 
And with that scale, she is saying to us, all of us are equal in the eyes of God and so all of us must be equal in the eyes of the law and government powerful and powerless alike. 
And she wears a blindfold and with that blindfold she is saying to us in this great nation, in this the 21st century, it must be true. It can be true that it doesn&#8217;t matter what you look like, that it doesn&#8217;t matter who you are, it does not matter your circumstances or where you start, here in this nation, every American&#8217;s life must be filled with the possibilities that come from their God-given gifts with liberty and justice for all. 
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. God bless you all. 
###
