…I think if you’re running for President, these are important issues because look around the world today. 
There’s a lunatic in North Korea with dozens of nuclear weapons and a long-range rocket that can already hit the very place in which we stand tonight. 
The Chinese are rapidly expanding their military. They hack into our computers. They’re building artificial islands in the South China Sea &#8211; the most important shipping lane in the world. 
A gangster in Moscow is not just threatening Europe, he’s threatening to destroy and divide NATO. 
You have radical jihadists in dozens of countries across multiple continents and they even recruit Americans using social media to try to attack us here at home. 
And now, we’ve got this horrible deal with Iran where a radical Shia cleric with an apocalyptic vision of the future is also guaranteed to one day possess nuclear weapons and also a long-range rocket that can hit the United States. 
These are extraordinarily dangerous times that we live in and the next President of the United States better be someone that understands these issues and has good judgment about them. 
Because the number one issue that a President will ever confront and the most important obligation that the federal government has is to keep this nation safe and today we are not doing that. 
We are eviscerating our military and we have a President that is more respectful to the Ayatollah in Iran than he is to the Prime Minister of Israel. 
I think we should have a deeper debate about these issues because there is no more important that a President will make.
…Because you better be able to lead our country on the first day, not six months from now, not a year from now. On the first day in office, our President could very well confront a national security crisis. You can’t predict it. Sometimes you cannot control it. 
The federal government does all kinds of things that’s not supposed to be doing. It regulates bathrooms. It regulates schools that belong to local communities. 
But the one thing that the federal government must do, the one thing that only the federal government can do is to keep us safe and the President better be up to date on those issues on his first day in office or on her first day in office. 
