Partial transcript of remarks by former Gov. Mike Huckabee (R-Arkansas) on entitlement reforms at the Fox News Republican presidential debate on Aug. 6, 2015: 
Question:
Please explain to Gov. Christie how that would work and how you could save these programs without the kind of painful reforms he says we need. 
Mike Huckabee:
A third of those people depend on 90% of their income from Social Security. 
Nobody in this country is on Social Security because they made the decision when they started work at 14 that they wanted to entrust some of their money with the government. 
The government took it out of their checks whether they wanted them to or not. 
And if a person goes to 65, they’re going to spend 51 years with the government reaching into their pocket at every paycheck. 
Now, here’s the point. Whose fault is it that the system is screwed up? Is it the recipients or it is the government? 
And if Congress wants to mess with the retirement program, why don’t we let them start by changing their retirement program and not have one instead of talking about getting rid of Social Security and Medicare that was robbed $700 billion to pay for Obamacare? 
It’s always that the government figures that they can do this off the backs of people, many of whom are poor, and depend on that money. 
And I just think it’s fundamentally lying to the people and stealing from them and we shouldn’t be doing it.
Chris Christie:
But here’s the news for the American people. He’s complaining about the lying and stealing. The lying and stealing has already occurred. The trust fund is filled with IOUs. 
We can’t fix the problem just by entering Congress’s retirement. That’s worth about this much. 
We need to go at the fundamental problem and the fundamental problem is that this system is broken. It has been stolen from. We have been lied to. And we need a strong leader to tell the truth and fix it. 
Mike Huckabee:
One of the reasons that Social Security is in so much trouble is the only funding stream comes from people who get a wage. 
The people who get wages is declining dramatically. Most of the income in this country is made by people at the top who get dividends and capital gains. 
The fair tax transforms the process by which we fund Social Security and Medicare because the money paid at consumption is paid by everybody, including illegals, prostitutes, pimps, drug dealers &#8211; all the people who are freeloading off the system now. That’s why it ought to be a transformed system. 
