Well, first of all, recognize that we have an incredible illegal immigration problem.
I was down at Arizona a few weeks ago at the border.
I mean, the fences that were there were not manned and those are the kinds of fences when I was a kid that would barely slow us down. So I don’t see any purpose in having that.
Now, what we need to do is look at something that actually works.
Yuma County, Arizona &#8211; they stopped 97% of the illegal immigration through there. They put a double fence with a road so that there was quick access by the enforcement people.
If we don’t seal the border, the rest of the stuff doesn’t really matter. It’s kind of ridiculous all the other things that we talk about.
We have the ability to do it. We don’t have the will to do it.
There was one area where they had cut a hole in the fence and to prepare it, they put a few strands of barb wire across.
Well, the photographers who were there with us, they wanted to photograph us from the side of the Mexicans and they went through there and they were not physically fit people and they took their cameras and things with them and shot us from the other side.
That’s how easy it is to get across and the drugs &#8211; I mean, it goes on and on and on.
ICE tells them to release these people &#8211; 67,000 criminals released onto our property. It’s ridiculous.
[On deporting 11 million undocumented immigrants] 
Well, I have also said if anybody knows how to do that that I would be willing to listen. And if they can specify exactly how that’s going to be done and what the costs and it sounds reasonable, then I think it’s worth discussing.
What I said was after we seal the borders, after we turn off the spigot that dispenses all the goodies so we don’t have people coming in here, including employment, that people who had a pristine record we should consider allowing them to become guest workers primarily in the agricultural sphere because that’s the place where Americans don’t seem to want to work. 
That’s what I said. 
And they have a six-month period to do that. If they don’t do it within that time period, then they become illegal and as illegals they will be treated as such.
My plan is not amnesty for a number of reasons. 
Number one, you know, I’ve talked to farmers and they say they cannot hire Americans to do the kind of jobs that I’m talking about. 
And the second reason is because the individuals who register guest workers they don’t get the vote, they are not American citizens and they don’t get the rights and privileges of American citizens. That’s the key. 
But the other thing that I want to bring up is I mentioned something earlier and I think it was just sort of glossed over. I talked about the success in Yuma County. I mean, incredible success. 
And the Department of Justice said “No, we don’t want to do that. That’s too successful.” 
We don’t have to keep reinventing the wheel. All we have to do is look at things that work. All we have to do is use a little common sense. 
