…I also had to overcome a lot of opposition in the leadership of my own party to get this done. 
Look, it’s fine to talk about all of these things and I’m glad we’re talking about these things. But I’ve actually done them. 
We’ve passed comprehensive gun safety legislation, not by looking at the pollings or looking at what the polls said. We actually did it. 
…Here tonight in our audience are two people that make this issue very, very real. Sandy and Lonnie Phillips are here from Colorado and their daughter, Jessie, was one of those who lost their lives in that awful mass shooting in Aurora. 
Now to try to transform their grief, they went to court, where sometimes progress does happen when you file in court. But in this case, you want to talk about a rigged game, Senator? The game was rigged. 
A man had sold 4,000 rounds of military ammunition to this person that killed their daughter, riddled her body with five bullets, and he didn’t even ask where it was going. And not only did their case get thrown out of court, they were slapped with $200,000 in court fees because of the way that the NRA gets its way in our Congress and we take a back seat. 
It’s time to stand up and pass comprehensive gun safety legislation as a nation. 
Bernie Sanders: 
Absolutely. I think the governor gave a very good example about the weaknesses in that law. I think we have to take another look at it. 
But here is the point, governor. We can raise our voices. But I come from a rural state and the views on gun control in rural states are different than in urban states whether we like it or not. 
Our job is to bring people together around strong common sense gun legislation. 
I think there is a vast majority in this country who want to do the right thing and I intend to lead the country in bringing our people together.
Martin O’Malley:
We were able to pass this and still respect the hunting traditions of people who live in our rural areas and we did it by leading with principle, not let pandering to the NRA &#8211; [overlapping audio]
Bernie Sanders:
&#8230;
Martin O’Malley:
