I led Hewlett Packard through a very difficult time &#8211; the worst technology recession in 25 years. 
The NASDAQ stock index fell 80%. It took 15 years for the stock index to recover. 
We had very strong competitors who literally went out of business and lost all of their jobs in the process. 
Despite those difficult times, we doubled the size of the company. We quadrupled its top line growth rate. We quadrupled its cash flow. We tripled its rate of innovation. 
Yes, we had to make tough choices. 
And in doing so, we saved 80,000 jobs, went on to grow to 160,000 jobs and now Hewlett Packard is almost 300,000 jobs. 
We went from lagging behind to leading in every product category and every market segment. 
We must lead in this nation again and some tough calls are going to be required. 
But as for the firing, I have been very honest about this from the day it happened. When you challenge the status quo, you make enemies. I made a few. 
Steve Jobs told me that when he called me the day I was fired to say “Hey, been there, done that twice”. 
It’s also true that the man that led my firing &#8211; Tom Perkins &#8211; just took out a full-page ad in the New York Times to say he was wrong, I was right. I was a terrific CEO. The board was dysfunctional, and he thinks I will make a magnificent President of the United States.
Jeffrey Sonnenfeld is a well-known Clintonite and honestly had it out for me from the moment that I arrived at Hewlett Packard. 
But honestly, Mr. Trump, I find it quite rich that you would talk about this. 
You know, there are a lot of us Americans who believe that we are going to have trouble someday paying back the interests on our debt because politicians have ran up mountains of debt using other people’s money. 
That is in fact precisely the way you ran your casinos. You ran up mountains of debts as well as lawsuits using other people’s money and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once, not twice &#8211; four times. A record four times. 
Why should we trust you to manage the finances of this nation any differently than you’ve managed the finances of your casino? 
Well, I thought we had been hearing quite a bit about Gov. Christie’s record as governor. Actually, I think track records are very important. 
I completely agree that what’s at stake here is the future of this nation and the future of every American. 
But I do think that a track record of leadership is vital because in the end, this election is about leadership. 
And let’s talk about what leadership is. It’s not about braggadocio. It is about challenging the status quo, solving problems, producing results. And the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others. 
Problems have festered in Washington for too long and the potential of this nation is being crushed. 
