Well, you know, both Bill and I have been very blessed. Neither of us came from wealthy families and we worked really hard our entire lives. 
And I want to make sure every single person in this country has the same opportunities that he and I have had to make the most of their God-given potential and to have the chances that they should have in America for a good education, good job training, and then good jobs. 
I have a five-point economic plan because this inequality challenge we face, we have faced it at other points. 
It’s absolutely right. It hasn’t been this bad since the 1920s. 
But if you look at the Republicans versus the Democrats when it comes to economic policy, there is no comparison. The economy does better when you have a Democrat in the White House and that’s why we need to have a Democrat in the White House in January 2017. 
Well, my plan is more comprehensive and frankly it’s tougher because of course we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to fail. We can never let the American taxpayers and middle class families ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw. 
But we also have to worry about some of the other players &#8211; AIG, a big insurance company; Lehman Brothers, an investment bank &#8211; there’s this whole area called shadow banking. That’s where the experts tell me the next potential problem could come from. 
So, I’m with both Sen. Sanders and Gov. O’Malley in putting a lot of attention onto the banks and the plan that I’ve put forward would actually empower regulators to break up big banks if we thought that they posed a risk. 
But I want to make sure we’re going to cover everybody, not what caused a problem last time but what could cause it next time. 
I took on the Bush administration for the same thing. 
So I have thought deeply and long about what we’re going to do to do exactly what I think both the senator and the governor want, which is to rein in and stop this risk, and my plan would have the potential of actually sending the executives to jail. Nobody wen to jail after $100 billion in fines were paid. And would give regulators the authority to go after the big banks. 
And I’m telling you and I’ll say it tonight &#8211; if only you look at the big banks, you may be missing the forest for the trees &#8211; [overlapping audio]
Bernie Sanders:
Hillary Clinton:
