…No President, no commander in chief, should take the military option off the table even if most of us would agree that it should be the last option. 
What disturbed people so much about &#8211; and I would agree with Sen. Sanders on this &#8211; leading us into Iraq under false pretenses and telling us as a people that there were weapons of mass destruction there was one of the worst blunders in modern American history. 
But the reason why people remain angry about it is because people feel like a lot of our legislators got railroaded in a war fever and by polls. 
And I remember being at a dinner shortly before that invasion, people were talking and saying “Oh, it will just take us a couple years to rebuild democracy” and I thought “Has this world gone mad?” 
Whenever we go in contrary to John Quincy Adams’s advice &#8211; “Searching the world for monsters to destroy” &#8211; and when we use political might to take at the expense of democratic principle, we hurt ourselves…[overlapping audio]
I believe that as President I would not be so quick to pull for a military tool. I believe that a no-fly zone in Syria at this time actually, Secretary, would be a mistake. You have to enforce no-fly zones and I believe especially with the Russian air force in the air, it could lead to an escalation because of an accident that we would deeply regret. 
I support President Obama. I think we have to play a long game. 
And I think ultimately when we’re talking about blunders I think Assad’s invasion of Syria will be seen as a blunder. 
Hillary Clinton:
You know, I have to say I was very pleased when Gov. O’Malley endorsed me for President in 2008 and I enjoyed his strong support in that campaign and I considered him obviously a friend. 
Let me say &#8211; because there’s a lot of loose talk going on here &#8211; we are already flying in Syria just as we are flying in Iraq. 
The President has made a very tough decision. 
What I believe and why I have advocated that the no-fly zone, which of course would be in a coalition, be put on the table is because I’m trying to figure out what leverage we have to get Russia to the table. 
You know, diplomacy is not about getting to the perfect solution; it’s about how you balance the risks. And I think we have an opportunity here and I know inside the administration this is being hotly debated to get that leverage to try to get the Russians to have to deal with everybody in the region to begin to move toward a political, diplomatic solution in Syria.
