…I am here to talk about something that is really important &#8211; how do we turn what we have into a 21st century health care system, not just insurance but the system altogether? How can we envision what a health care system can look like in 2025 rather than protect the version of 1975, which in effect is what we have now? 
America really if you think about it is a place of discovery and innovation. And if we fix a few big things, we can transform ourselves because we’re the most dynamic country in the world, not just health care but across the spectrum of policy, to make lives better for ourselves and our children and our grandchildren. 
This is going to require a new approach on how we allow people to stay healthy, how we reward that, treat illness and support life-saving medical discoveries and care. 
In fact, let me just give you a couple of anecdotes that I think will validate this. 
In my own personal life, next week or the week after next, I’m the 20th anniversary of an event my wife, Colum, and I have been involved in to raise money for cystic fibrosis. 
We’ve been doing it 20 years and when we began this people would say &#8211; I could remember that children were dying before they became adults with this disease. 
And people would say, well, if we keep working hard eventually we’ll find a cure. 
Well, in fact, today if you’re born with cystic fibrosis, there are medicines that have been discovered in the last three or four years and more on the way that will ultimately allow someone with cystic fibrosis to live as long as everybody else. 
Our grandchildren being born today if we get this right will live way beyond 100 years. 
It creates huge challenges but it’s also an opportunity for us to transform our society in a way that will allow more and more people to live lives of purpose and meaning.
But here’s the problem. The one thing I know is this. We can’t stick with the status quo. We can’t leave this up to the lobbyists and to the politicians in Washington, D.C. because the system we have today &#8211; Obamacare in its most current form &#8211; was written by the special interests for the special interests. 
Let’s look at what had been promised and what we got instead. 
President Obama promised health care insurance premiums that they would fall by $2,500 per family. Now, it’s estimated by the President’s own team that they’ll increase by $2,900 over the next 10 years. 
Right here in New Hampshire based on the rate filings that have taken place, next year’s premiums are expected to increase anywhere from 20% to 50%. 
President Obama promised universal coverage. Based on government projections even after spending $1.7 trillion over 10 years, there’ll still be 27 million Americans without health insurance during this 10-year period. 
More than half of those getting insurance so far are enrolled in Medicaid. But it turns out that being on Medicaid isn’t necessarily a better deal than being uninsured. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks on health care &#8211; Part 1
For those policy wonks in the crowd, you may want to check the University of Oregon study that analyzed like-kind patients, like-kind people that had insurance and those that were receiving Medicaid, and what they found was the people that didn’t have insurance actually got better quality care. 
The notion that somehow access to insurance yields better results may not be the case if you look at the poor quality of Medicaid that is tied down by massive amounts of regulation and rules imposed by Washington, D.C.
The Obamacare website &#8211; one of the classic disasters in modern government history &#8211; has now been overhauled at the cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Two-thirds of the people who got on Obamacare subsidy found out later that they owed an average of $730 to the IRS. 
People who signed up for an Obamacare plan are finding that a third of the doctors and hospitals aren’t in their networks. 
The number of people dropping out of the plan, according to the New York Times story that I read yesterday, is growing as people realize that this is not full coverage, that they have to pay out-of-pocket costs and it’s better to pay the fine. 
You couldn’t escape the impact of this terrible law even if you were not on the exchanges or on Medicaid because the mandates on additional coverage requirements also are creating impositions for private companies. 
And all of this is being done with the largest tax increase in modern history on the backs of businesses and savers and American workers. 
He imposed these rules to encourage companies to cut hours for workers because markets work this way. The minute you create some kind of rule or imposition, people adjust, and the net effect is that millions of man-hours and woman-hours are gone because people are working part-time when they want to work full-time. 
In fact, people are losing insurance when they had it before. 
It’s quite a legacy when you think about it. And when you consider the wreckage, it makes you wonder how could anybody support this now.
Well, Hillary Clinton supports it and so does Bernie Sanders, and other Democrats in the debate tonight in Las Vegas will probably prove that they will be strongly supportive of this top-down driven, highly bureaucratic insurance plan that is stifling our ability to rise up. 
Because for the Democrats, this is what they want. This is how they roll. This is what they like. They like the power of deciding these things from up above. This is their essence. 
And I believe the top-down driven approach is not the one for our country, whether it’s energy policy, health care policy, environmental policy &#8211; across the board, we’re a bottom-up nation. We’re a nation that does things much better when we empower people to make decisions for themselves rather than get in line and be told what to do. 
That’s what Obamacare is and there’s no way to fix it, to be honest with you. You can’t fix something that was a failure from the start. We have to start over. 
And when I become president, I will work immediately to repeal and replace Obamacare with a system that looks more like the successful enterprises and successful system of our great country. 
Let me tell you how I will get it done. I will focus on what health care should look like. 
As I said, we need a health care system for 2025, not 1975. 
I believe we need to recognize the positive change and disruption all around us should be our friend, not our adversary. It’s especially true in health care and we should liberate our system to allow for much more innovation to take place. 
Think about it. We have smart phones that can video chat with our doctors and caregivers. We have genomics medicine that can personalize treatment of cancer and other diseases. We have 3-D printers that can turn out replacement blood vessels and liver cells and heart valves. 
Medicine has changed and it is constantly changing. And we have to get Washington out of the way, stop its micromanagement so that we can have an explosion of dynamic response to the great challenges that we face to turn them into opportunities not just for our better health but also for economic progress for all of us. 
I believe as I hope you do that lives are saved by bold and courageous innovation and that we have a moral obligation to make sure that Washington doesn’t get in that way. 
If we rely on the regulators of Washington, D.C. to decide what kind of health care we should get, we would continue to get a lot of frustration, higher costs, and a lot more complexity than what we need. 
Or worse, look at the VA scandal that has taken place throughout our country &#8211; the VA hospitals. President Obama and many on the left have used the VA hospital system as a model for government-controlled health care, bragging about how great it is. Well, the delays and deceptions speak for themselves and we’ve been warned. 
If that’s what the best that Washington can do, I think we need to move in a different direction. 
We need to unleash the power of millions of Americans, of doctors, of nurses, of entrepreneurs who are inventing the future of health care. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks on health care &#8211; Part 1
Advanced screenings and medical tests that require only a stick of your finger for high risk populations. 
Personalized therapy for seniors who live far away from major hospitals. 
Genomics medicine so treatments match each person’s physiology. 
An app on your smart phone that calls a doctor to your front door just as it does for a car to come pick you up. 
New devices that can mimic what our body was designed to do. 
I want all of us to embrace this change so that we can finally answer these questions with confidence &#8211; did the patient get the care he or she needed? Did her health improve? Was there a more efficient or affordable way to get to the best result? 
My plan, therefore, focuses on five key steps. 
First, as I said, we’ll repeal Obamacare. That means all its mandates, its penalties, new spending, new taxes, the arbitrary picking and choosing of the parts of the law that are implemented and the ones that don’t. All of that goes away. Especially the new taxes on medical devices, drugs, and insurance &#8211; all of which drive up the cost of the health care for middle-income Americans. 
Second, instead of punishing innovation, we’ll double-down on it. My plan will aggressively support groundbreaking work at the NIH and our country’s finest researchers as they find new treatments and new cures. 
If we started from scratch, if we didn’t have a system of how we allocate the resources for the curing of diseases, the research that goes on, and if we started from scratch with the FDA, I can promise you it would be a less costly system and it would take a lot less time and it would be more strategic in its efforts. And that’s what we need to do. 
We need to re-boot the strategy for health e-records and make medical record-keeping more efficient, more shareable and more secure. 
The president had a golden opportunity to be able to do this but the simple fact is that the information technology funding through the stimulus was not focused on creating a shared platform for all of us to benefit and so we have huge complexity in information technology and that information is not protected nor is it shared. 
We need to accelerate the FDA process of drug and device approval so that potentially life-saving medications for cancer, Alzheimer’s and other major killers can reach patients more safety and quickly. 
I believe we need to create a consensus to as we did in the 1960s when John F. Kennedy suggested we launch a man to the moon &#8211; we do that as an aspirational goal. I think we need to do the same thing as we create an aspiration goal to investigate and explore the brain. 
Think of all the challenges that exist in our communities today because we lag behind on understanding how the brain operates &#8211; autism, Alzheimer’s, mental illness &#8211; all of these challenges that play out in our society. 
A great country like ours with abundance of resources like ours, if we were strategic in our approach rather than viewing all this kind of as a trough and everybody just kind of tries to get to the front of the, you know, the high-grade slop in the front of the trough, that’s not how it should work. We should be significantly more aspirational and strategic about how we go about doing this. 
Innovation led by the private sector will be the center of everything we do because that’s the only way we can get better care at lower cost. 
We need to fix where the government is holding back innovative health care and we also need to have more innovative ways to pay for health care. 
Therefore, we would give people more control over their health care dollars. 
In my plan, we would propose tax credits to those without employer coverage so that they could pay for portable and secure insurance that provides preventive care and also provides comprehensive coverage for major medical events. 
This will help middle class households who currently don’t qualify for the Obamacare subsidies and have been slammed by higher premiums brought about by Obamacare. 
It would make it easier for small businesses to help their employees to get coverage. 
Today, as a small business person, it’s either or. Either you provide insurance for your employees or you don’t. 
A better approach perhaps would be to make it easier for lower-cost insurance for small businesses to provide care. But if they want to provide support for individuals that wanted to get their own care in a less mandated form of access to care, they should have that right to do and that should be a tax write-off for them. 
Many people are frustrated with the higher deductible plans, and we’ll give them support they need by making it easier to save tax-free for their out-of-pocket health care costs and co-pays such as co-pays and over-the-counter medications. 
This system would work far better. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks on health care &#8211; Part 1
They made a system where you don’t have the consumer actually be engaged in making decisions you get a good result. That’s not how it works. The best system is one where people are totally engaged, where we have transparent information for them to make decisions for themselves and where there’s support for them to be able to have the kind of insurance that will allow them to grow and prosper along with the health savings account so that they’re rewarded for healthy lifestyle decisions as they go forward. 
Whatever they don’t spend, they should be able to save, and we’ll give them real transparency to decide which health care provider will provide the best value. 
By giving individuals more control over their health care dollars, health care providers are going to be more accountable for results and they’re going to really compete to design the new ways to deliver care. 
This will require some major changes on how we regulate health insurance. States rather than Washington, D.C. are better equipped to set the standards for health insurance. 
So here’s what I propose. We’ll open up state insurance markets to much broader competition and choice. 
Right now, Obamacare locks in a small handful of expensive one-size-fits-all mandated policies engineered in Washington, D.C. 
We need to break up the insurance monopolies and let people buy health insurance designed for what they actually want. 
For example, an individual who may want to buy a high deductible plan for unexpected events &#8211; the true form of insurance that should be the norm &#8211; but maybe they also want to have one that adds preventive care and diabetes management with no cost sharing at all. 
Or physicians may want to develop a plan that uses precision medicine to identify and cure one’s cancer. 
The possibilities for innovation are endless if we just trust the marketplace to do what it does so well. 
If people are informed and they make decisions based on the proper information that they have, that the system is much more transparent, the providers of insurance and the providers of are will respond with significant amount of innovation. 
Plans to protect you in case you get sick and plans with a focus on certain conditions such as heart disease would become the norm. 
Plans that are perfect for different stages of life whether people are single or whether they have a family or whether they’re retired. 
And let me be clear about this. Everybody will have access to the tax credits that will help them buy insurance that protects them from losing their life savings from major medical events. 
That should be the national focus, making sure that people have catastrophic coverage so that their lives are not turned upside down by an adverse event that could have real devastation for their family. 
Whatever else people want insurance to cover, they’ll be able to buy that. And we won’t force people to buy coverage they don’t want either because they don’t need it or it violates their conscience. 
And frankly, that’s one of the most egregious parts of Obamacare &#8211; the idea that you’re forced to do things against your own conscience and we would get rid of that. 
There are certain things we will insure. 
We will expect that vulnerable Americans, regardless of how much money they make, get the care and outcomes they deserve. 
Hillary Clinton says that that will happen under Medicaid. 
Let me tell you something. I was the governor of the state of Florida. I think we had the fourth largest Medicaid plan. And I can just promise you that states are extraordinarily frustrated with the federal-state partnership that is Medicaid. 
And spending more through a broken insurance system is not the answer to this. 
Let’s try a new approach. Let’s let the states have the power to create a safety net we need for the 21st century and hold them accountable for the results they achieve. 
If we took the money that goes right now to Medicaid and took the subsidies on Obamacare and put SCHIP in there in the mix and allow states to innovate with certain outcome criteria, I can promise you we would get a better result. 
And you know why I know that? Because I had a chance to do a version of that when I was governor or the state of Florida with our Medicaid plan. 
We had a pilot program in Fort Lauderdale, in Jacksonville. In effect, it was the 25th largest Medicaid plan and we created tiered premiums where Medicaid beneficiaries were given choice counseling, where we empowered them to make choices. 
This notion that people living in poverty don’t know what’s right for their families? We better start rejecting that out of hand. Whether it’s health care or education or what’s right for their families or the safety of their neighborhoods, America doesn’t do this right &#8211; this top-down belief that some people are smart and some people aren’t &#8211; I reject it and I hope you do as well. 
A Medicaid plan that empowers people to make decisions for themselves will get a far better result. 
Imagine a system, which is what we had in Florida, where you had choice counseling, where you rewarded the proper making health care lifestyle decisions by allowing people more money to make healthy lifestyle decisions the next year, where there’s competition, where there’s choices, where people pick the plan for them. 
Maybe they had a child that had asthma. You had a higher premium based on the actuarial cost of the Medicaid for those type of beneficiaries. They’re empowered to make more choices because they got more for the premium dollars that they had. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks on health care &#8211; Part 1
A system that is focused on people rather than on government will yield a far better result. 
And the net result of this was we did this at a lower cost than the old Medicaid plan. We did it at higher quality. 
And Medicaid beneficiaries based on outside observations and studies suggested that it was far better for them. 
Why not empower people when we have the chance? 
And I believe the states are the place where this will happen. 
Washington has had its day. It’s had its chance to do these things and it has failed us miserably. 
Try to get any change in the Medicaid program with Washington, D.C., it nearly takes an act of God. 
We need to liberate our country to be able to from the bottom up begin to solve these problems in a better way. 
I won’t accept the straw man argument from the other side that they’ve been making that the opposite of Obamacare is no care. 
There is a better way and it doesn’t mean going back to the way things used to be. We need a system that doesn’t just address the changes in health care but also one that meets the needs for our economy. 
As you may know, my aspiration is that this country should grow at 4% per year as far as the eye can see. 
If we were doing that, I can promise you that the demands on government would subside. 
There would a lot more people on the private insurance market working for companies that would be able increase their pay instead of having to slough off their health care costs. 
The greatest suppression of wages today is Obamacare and the health care system that existed prior to Obamacare. 
It is not working. More and more of the costs are associated, are put on the backs of employees and take-home pay has declined. 
We’re in the sixth year of a recovery and disposable income today is $2,000 plus less than the day the recovery started. 
The health care costs are a part of this and moving to a different system would make it work. 
According to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, repealing Obamacare would increase GDP growth by 0.7% &#8211; seven tenths of 1% &#8211; over five years, which is a big part &#8211; not the only part &#8211; of reaching the goal of 4% growth instead of this new normal of 2% growth. 
Repealing Obamacare alone would increase the numbers of hours worked and add the equivalent of 4 million full-time equivalent jobs to our economy. 
There are a lot of people working part-time &#8211; 6.5 million people. They want to work full-time but they’re stuck in a system because of these rules having these adverse outcomes that either weren’t anticipated or people didn’t care. 
No matter how you earn a living, my plan will give American people control over their health care and I reject the arguments you hear from the progressive left whether it is Sen. Sanders or Hillary Clinton or the Obama administration that Americans aren’t equipped to make these decisions and that government has to do the work for them. That is not the American way. 
If you inform people and empower them with the right information in a much more transparent system, I can promise you that people are smart. They will act on their self-interest which is lower costs at a higher quality for their families. 
I’m not afraid of giving people information about their health care and how much it costs and how they can save. You know why? Because I got to do that as governor of the state of Florida as well. 
We were the first state to put online all of the costs of procedures for hospitals. Hospitals at first thought this was kind of a radical idea. They didn’t like it. But then they realized why shouldn’t we do this? Because then they started offering care and promoting the fact that they had better outcomes at lower costs. 
Think about every aspect of our economy. I mean think about this. Is this the only place in the economy where low cost and higher quality is assumed to be impossible to achieve? 
The rest of the economy does this daily. Almost every aspect of our life that pushes to lower costs and through innovation create more abundance, more prosperity, more possibilities, more choices, higher quality. 
Health care needs to get to that as well. There will be an explosion of benefits for consumers and for people in terms of our economy and better health if we tear down the barriers that are so common sensical in every other aspects of our economy and economic life in this country. 
For some odd reason, people just can’t see how lower costs can improve if you do it the right way quality where we prevent illness and we create a better chance for people to live a life of purpose and meaning. 
That’s how health care could work but it’s going to require the kind of leadership we need to fix these big complex things. 
Look, whether it’s regulation in general or taxes or embracing the energy revolution in our midst or reforming our higher education system where we have an explosion of debt and young people particularly stuck with recourse debt and we haven’t reformed the higher education system to make sure that degrees are obtained in a way that allows young people to begin their journey in life, all of these things are broken right now because we haven’t had the leadership in Washington to bring people together to fix them. 
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks on health care &#8211; Part 1
And I believe if we do it in health care, this will be the most exciting time to be alive in this world.
This is an essential element of what the next President has to do. I believe I have the skills to do it. 
I have the zeal for reform. I can promise you that. 
And I believe that if we get this right, as I said, we’ll have our grandchildren living way beyond 100. We’ll be hopefully up in heaven, at least my age. But we’ll have a society that will lead the world &#8211; a society that will continue to be the envy of this entire planet. 
I think it’s worth fighting for. I hope you do as well. 
Thank you all very much. 
###
Transcript: Jeb Bush’s remarks on health care &#8211; Part 1
