…You know, first off, New Jersey is the first state in the nation that says if you are non-violent, non-dealing drug user, that you don’t go to jail for your first offense. You’d have mandatory treatment.
You see, I’m pro-life, and I think you need to be pro-life for more than just the time in the womb. It gets a lot tougher when they get out of the womb.
And whether they’re the 16-year-old addicts in the Fordham County lockup, that life is just as precious as the life in the womb.
And so that’s why I’m for rehabilitation and why I think the war on drugs has been a failure.
But I’ll end with this. It doesn’t mean that we should be legalizing gateway drugs.
And if Sen. Paul thinks that the only victim is the person, look at the decrease in productivity, look at the way people get used and move on to other drugs when they use marijuana as a gateway drug. It’s not them that are the only victims; their families are the victims too; their children are the victims too; and their employers are the victims also.
And that’s why I’ll enforce the federal law while you could still put an emphasis on rehabilitation…
Rand Paul: 
Gov. Christie would go into Colorado and if you’re breaking federal law on marijuana even though the state law allows it, he would put you in jail.
If a young mother is trying to give her child cannabis oil or medical marijuana for seizure treatment, he would put her in jail if it violates federal law.
I would let Colorado do what the Tenth Amendment says. This power &#8211; we were never intended to have crime dealing at the federal level. Crime was supposed to be left to the states.
Colorado’s made their decision and I don’t want the federal government interfering and putting moms in jail who are simply trying to get medicine for their kids.
Chris Christie: 
In New Jersey, we have medical marijuana laws which I’ve supported and implemented.
This is not medical marijuana. This goes a much further step beyond. This is recreational use of marijuana. This is much different.
And so while he’d like to use the sympathetic story to back up his point, it doesn’t work.
I’m not against medical marijuana. We do it in New Jersey. But I am against the recreational use of marijuana.
If he wants to change the federal law, get Congress to pass a law to change it and get the President to sign.
Rand Paul: 
That’s not consistent with the Tenth Amendment. It’s not consistent with states’ rights. And it’s not consistent with the conservatives’ vision for the country.
I don’t think we should be sending the federal police in to arrest a mother and separate them from their child for giving a medicine for seizure.
