I’ve known John Roberts for 20 years. He’s an amazingly talented lawyer but yes, it was a mistake when he was appointed to the Supreme Court.
He’s a good enough lawyer that he knows in these Obamacare cares he changed the statute, he changed the law in order to force that failed law and millions of Americans for a political outcome.
And you know, we’re frustrated as conservatives. We keep winning elections and then we don’t get the outcome we wanted.
Let me focus on two moments in time. Number one, in 1990, in one room was David Souter, in another room was Edith Jones, the rock-rip conservative on the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals.
George Herbert Walker Bush appointed David Souter.
And then in 2005, in one room was John Roberts and in another room was my former boss, Mike Ludick, the rock-rip conservative on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.
George W. Bush appointed John Roberts.
And let me give you the consequences of that. If instead the President Bushes have appointed Edith Jones and Mike Ludick, which is who I would have appointed, Obamacare would have been struck down three years ago and the marriage laws of all 50 states would be on the books.
These matter and I fought to defend the Constitution my whole life…
Jeb Bush: 
So, you can rewrite history, Ted, but the simple fact is that you supported him because he had all the criteria that you would have thought would have made a great justice and I think he is doing a good job.
But the simple fact is going forward, what we need to do is to have someone who has a longstanding set of rulings that consistently makes it clear that he focused exclusively on upholding the Constitution of the United States, that they won’t try to use the bench as a means by which to legislate.
And that’s what we should do and I hope I’ll be working with members of the United States Senate to fight hard for the passage of people that have that kind of qualification.
Ted Cruz: 
It is true that after George W. Bush nominated John Roberts, I supported his confirmation. That was a mistake and I regret that.
I wouldn’t have nominated John Roberts and indeed Gov. Bush pointed out why. It wasn’t that the Presidents Bushes wanted to appoint a liberal to the court. It’s that it was the easier choice.
Both David Souter and John Roberts, they didn’t have a long paper trail. If you’d nominated Edith Jones or Mike Ludic, you would have had a bloody fight and they weren’t willing to spend political capital to put a strong judicial conservative on the court.
I have spent my entire life starting from clerking for Chief Justice William Rehnquist on the United States Supreme Court, one of the most principled jurists.
We have an out of control court.
And I give you my word, if I’m elected President every single Supreme Court justice will faithfully follow the law and will not act like philosopher kings imposing their liberal policies on millions of Americans who need to be trusted to govern ourselves.
