				Part 1 of 3. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 18, 2015:
…I think that too often our culture though seeks to separate faith and freedom, but I think both are essential. 
Without virtue, freedom casts about, and I think chaos beckons. 
Freedom needs virtue and virtue needs freedom. The soothing voices that seek to reassure us, saying “Everything’s okay. Everything’s just fine. All is well.” 
All is well but all is not well. 
America is not just experiencing growing pains. America is in a full-blown spiritual crisis. 
America is…not wolves at the door but termites in the floor. Our foundation’s cracking. 
It’s not that we’ve chosen the wrong politicians, although that’s a debatable question, it’s more fundamental than that. It requires deeper introspection. 
We should pray for our country and our leaders. We need those prayers to face a great challenge &#8211; a great challenge of our time. 
We’ve arrived at that day of reckoning. Will we falter or will we thrive and rediscover our greatness? 
America has much greatness in her if we believe in ourselves, if we believe in ourselves, if we believe in our founding documents, if we believe in the system that has made us the richest, freest, and most humanitarian nation ever.
America will thrive when we realize that freedom requires faith to sustain it. 
…Those of us who love freedom must realize that freedom is not a license to do as you please. Freedom can only be realized when citizens know self-restraint or put it another way, virtue. 
This parallels with what George Washington talked about when he said democracy requires a virtuous people. 
Laws alone, though are not enough to civilize a nation. 
What America needs is not just another politician or more promises. What America needs is a revival. 
Now that I’ve been to Washington for a couple of years and I’ve seen what goes on up here, I’ve seen the belly of the beast. I can tell you without exaggeration that I’ve met the enemy and the enemy is too often us. 
The enemy is the bipartisan looting of the Treasury, the bipartisan destruction of our currency, the bipartisan sprint away from a republic limited by our Constitution.
They pass thousand-page bills that no one’s read. 
Republicans and Democrats ignore their own rules to vote on bills that haven’t even been published in advance. I say it must end. No bill should ever pass that’s not been read. 
I have a proposal. I’d say make them wait one day for every 20 pages. That’ll keep them busy for a while. 
Congress routinely passes laws that they exempt themselves from. I’d say Congress should pass no law that exempts themselves. 
Over time, many politicians become distant and distanced from their constituents, from doing real work, from knowing what it’s like like the rest of us to work for a paycheck, to produce something of value. 
That’s why I believe it’s absolutely essential &#8211; and it is the right time &#8211; for term limits. 
				Part 2 of 3. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 18, 2015:
Don Devine writes and he says “Freedom needs tradition for law, order, and inspiration. But tradition needs freedom to escape stagnation, coercion, and decline.” 
The great achievement of the Constitution’s framers was in providing a means for synthesizing freedom and tradition. 
America needs to revive tradition.
…Government can supply bread but it can’t mend a broken spirit. 
Mother Teresa was once praised for her social work in India and she said “We’re not social workers. We do this for Jesus.” 
No government social worker can claim the same motivation. Citizenship and good government require the involvement of a virtuous people. 
Your faith and your church are and should be part of the public arena. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise. 
Reject any politician that claims that faith can’t be part of a public life. 
As my friend, Ralph Reed, likes to say, “The First Amendment is not about keeping religious people out of government, it’s about keeping government out of religion.” 
Now, some seem to think you’d have to choose one or the other &#8211; either liberty or virtue. I think they’ve got it wrong. 
Liberty is absolutely essential to virtue. It is our freedom to make individual choice that allows us to be virtuous. 
This doesn’t mean that government cannot or should not reflect our values. In fact, it must. 
Some seek to separate religious liberty from economic liberty. Some seek to say our values have no place in public policy. 
That’s not the way it should be. 
Hobby Lobby is owned by a Christian family. The government’s trying to force them to buy insurance that covers something that they find morally objectionable. 
Their lawyer described this situation &#8211; I love the way he put it together &#8211; he says, “You know what? Obamacare forces us to abandon our faith to stay in business or abandon our business to stay true to our faith. That’s wrong.”
No government should force anyone to choose between their faith and pursuing their livelihood. 
Reagan understood the unity of this message when he wrote “We do not have a separate social agenda, a separate economic agenda, and a separate foreign agenda. We have one agenda. Just as we surely seek to put our financial house in order, rebuild our nation’s defenses so too we seek to protect the unborn, to end the manipulation of children by utopian planners, and to remit an acknowledgement of a supreme being in our classrooms.” 
Another way that we as Christians should stand to the current status quo is in foreign policy. 
Reagan, in one of his earliest speeches, said “The record of history is clear: Citizens of the U.S. resort to force reluctantly and only when we must.” 
Eisenhower, a great general, expressed it similarly. He said, “Our foreign policy is not difficult to state. We are for peace first, last, and always.” 
Reagan believed in strength but he also believed in peace. He wrote, “As for the enemies of freedom, they will be reminded that peace is the highest aspiration for the American people.” 
Our reluctance for conflict should not be misjudged as a failure of will. When action is required to preserve our national security, we will act. 
Reagan spoke often of peace through strength but I fear that some in our nation and some in our party have forgotten the first part of our sentence, that peace should be our goal even as we build our strength. 
				Part 3 of 3. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul’s remarks at the Faith and Freedom Coalition “Road to Majority” Conference on June 18, 2015:
Even when we’ve tried through good intentions to make the world a better place, our actions have often backfired. 
Jesus reminds us what our goals should be when he proclaims “Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God.” 
This doesn’t mean we won’t defend ourselves. If attacked, it is our duty to defend your family, to defend our country, to defend our freedom.
During the Iraq war, though, think of what happened. A quarter of a million of Iraqi Christians fled Iraq. They feared the Shiite government that’s there now, that we helped put in place after Saddam. 
They fled in droves by the hundreds of thousands. Where did they go? They headed mostly for Syria, joining almost a million Syrians who have lived as Christians since the time of Christ. 
Now, President Obama is arming Islamic rebels in Syria. The vast majority of Christians in Syria though are on the opposite side of the war. We are arming Islamic rebels that are intent on killing Christians. 
One recent massacre stands out from others. In 2013, Islamic marauders invaded a little town of Ma&#8217;loula, an ancient Christian city where they still speak Aramaic &#8211; the language that Jesus spoke. The villagers have been Christians since the time of Christ. 
As the Islamic rebels swarmed into town, they demanded that everyone convert to Islam or die…A brave young man stood up and answered them and said, ‘I am a Christian and if you must kill me, do it.” Those were his last words. 
Elsewhere in Syria, Islamic rebels have filmed beheadings of their captives. Two Christian bishops have been kidnapped and one priest killed. 
There is an irony that is impossible to escape. Our tax dollars are funding Islamic rebels who are killing Christians. 
Now, they will say, “Oh, we’re only giving it to the moderate rebels.” I defy them to tell me that they can tell with certainty who they’re giving the weapons to. 
In Pakistan, Asia Bibi sits on death row because she’s a Christian. She’s been there five years. 
In Iran, Saeed Abedini suffers in a prison because he is a Christian. 
American tax dollars are often flowing to countries that are doing this. 
Pakistan’s gotten billions of dollars while persecuting Christians. There’s a war on Christianity going on and sometimes you’re being asked to pay for it. 
I’d say not one penny to any country that persecutes Christians. 
Recently, we discovered that Islamic rebels that…President Obama is arming have been provided with anti-tank weapons. 
They made an announcement two weeks ago that they are now intent on attack Israel when they’re done with Assad. They said they’re going after the Golan Heights next and Israel’s on their target list, and we have given them weapons &#8211; sophisticated anti-tank weapons &#8211; and these are the moderate rebels that you’re giving weapons to? 
In country after country, mobs burn the American flag and chant “Death to America”. Congress’s response? Send them more money. Send more money to these haters of Christianity. 
Hamas has now joined the Palestinian Authority. Why? They say, “Frankly we’re broke and we need money. Maybe the Americans will give us money.” 
But are they renouncing anything they say? They are not renouncing one iota of what they stand for. Hamas calls for the destruction of Israel. Your money’s going to be going to them soon.  
I say not one penny to nations that pledge violence to Israel. 
It’s time to stop this madness. We need to re-examine our foreign policy, halt this aid to Islamic rebels in Syria, Egypt and elsewhere and take a good long hard look at what foreign policy has done.
Back here at home, we have a war being waged, takes over a million lives every year. It’s a war against the unborn, and it must end. 
When Pope John Paul II spoke about a culture of death, he talked about a war of the powerful against the weak. 
As Christians, we know we must always stand with the most defenseless. I believe that no nation, no civilization can long endure that doesn’t respect life from those that are not yet born to life’s last breath. 
To protect life, I’ve introduced in the Senate a federal Life at Conception Act, and I will stand up for unborn children as long as I’m privileged to be in office. 
These days, Christians are often unified in our defense of life, but too many are still not taking action or voting their beliefs. We must change this. 
Last year, I stood in the Garden of Gethsemane. As we stood there, all we sang how great thou art, how great thou art. It was a really moving experience. I’ll never forget it. 
The hymn exhorts &#8211; “Then sings my soul. I savior God to thee.” 
When our message bursts forth like songs, when our message bursts forth with a passion of Patrick Henry, when our message comes as a song from soul full of compassion, full of enduring truth, then and only then will freedom ring. 
When I was home recently, I was going through some old letters that my great- great-grandmother wrote about the turn of the last century. And I would like to close with a blessing that my great grandmother wrote to her son in 1903 when he was away working a few hours away in Youngstown, Ohio. 
She wrote to him, “Our sabbath was lovely which I spent at home as usual. But the dear Lord willing, I hope I can soon go back to his house again. Anyways, his grace is sufficient for me. There is a song in my soul today though, a blessed sunshine that no outward circumstances can take away. The Lord is a sun and a shield to all that trust in him. May he always be your God.” 
Thank you and God bless America. 
###
