…The number one test for use of military force should be the vital national security interests of the United States. 
The reason why I opposed President Obama bombing Syria is because he couldn’t answer the question “What do you do if chemical weapons end up in the hands of radical Islamic terrorists like al-Nusra, like al-Qaeda, like ISIS? 
Now, I also want to respond to several of the folks up here who said we should trust this Iranian deal and see if the Iranians will comply. Anyone who’s paying attention to what Khomeini says knows that they will not comply. 
There’s a reason why Khomeini refers to Israel as the “little Satan” and America as the “great Satan”. 
In the middle of negotiating this treaty, Khomeini led the assembled masses in chanting “Death to America”. 
I’m reminded of a great editorial cartoon. It shows the Ayatollah Khomeini saying “Death to all Americans” and it shows John Kerry coming back and saying “Can we meet you halfway?”
We need a commander in chief who will stand up and protect this country. 
And I’ll tell you I can’t wait to stand on that debate stage with Hillary Clinton and to make abundantly clear if you vote for Hillary, you were voting for the Ayatollah Khomeini to possess a nuclear weapon. 
And if you elect me as President, under no circumstances will a theocratic ayatollah who chants “Death to America” ever be allowed to acquire a nuclear weapon. 
There is no more important topic in 2016 than this topic right here. And I’ve listened to several folks say, “Well, gosh if they cheat, we’ll act.” 
We won’t know under this agreement there are several facilities in Iran they designate as military facilities that are off-limit altogether. Beyond that, the other facilities we give them 24 days notice before inspecting them. That is designed to allow them to hide the evidence. 
And most astonishingly, this agreement trusts the Iranians to inspect themselves. 
That makes no sense whatsoever. 
And let me note, President Obama is violating federal law by not handing over the side deals and we ought to see the United States Congress stand up together and say “Hand over this treaty and protect this country.” 
