And I think many of you have seen a letter written by oncologists talking about how their patients are unable to purchase the cancer drugs that they are prescribing.
Instead of listening to the demands of the pharmaceutical industry and their 1,400 lobbyists &#8211; an industry where it spent over $250 million last year on campaign contributions and lobbying expenses &#8211; it is about time for Congress to start listening to the vast majority of the American people who know there’s something wrong when we pay by far the highest drug prices in the world.
It is time for the United States to join the rest of the industrialized world by implementing prescription drug policies that work for everybody not just the CEOs of the pharmaceutical industry.
And let me just very briefly summarize some of the components of the bill that Congressman Cummings and I will be introducing today.
First, the bill requires Medicare to use its bargaining power to negotiate with the prescription drug companies for better prices. This is not a radical idea &#8211; something that the VA, other government agencies do.
When you purchase a lot of product, you use the power &#8211; the leverage &#8211; of that bulk purchasing to force down prices.
Two, this bill would allow individuals, pharmacists, and wholesalers to import prescription drugs from licensed Canadian pharmacies where drug prices are 40% lower per person than they are in the United States of America.
Back in 1999, I was the first member of Congress to take Americans over the Canadian border. I lived 100 miles away from Canada. We border Canada in Vermont.
And I will never forget as long as I live women who were struggling with breast cancer purchasing a product they needed &#8211; a medicine they needed &#8211; for one-tenth of the price that they were paying in the United States of America.
And I know I’ve got a lot of colleagues out there who believe in free trade. They love free trade. And somehow or another despite their great love for free trade, we have distributors who cannot import medicine from Canada. Doesn’t make a whole lot of sense to me.
Number three, this bill will hold the pharmaceutical industry accountable when they defraud the American people.
Today, nearly every pharmaceutical company has been convicted of either civil or criminal fraud.
Fourth, this bill would end pay-for-delay &#8211; a practice which brand name prescription drug companies pay other companies not to manufacture cheaper generic drugs.
I’m delighted that the legislation that Congressman Cummings and I are introducing is endorsed by the Alliance for Retired Americans, Social Security Works, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Families USA, and many other groups.
So we are onto an issue that I believe the American people want to resolved. And I’m very proud to be working with Congressman Cummings.
Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland): 
Sen. Sanders did a great job laying out the specifics of what is in the bill. So let me just add a couple of points.
First, a recent poll issued by the Kaiser Family Foundation reported that 72% of Americans believe drug prices are unreasonable. 72%. That’s pretty high.
It also found that 74% of Americans believe drug companies put profits before people.
And one of the things that Sen. Sanders and I are trying to do is make sure that these drug companies put people before profits because the fact is that a lot of people’s lives are dependent upon these drugs.
And it’s not just life-saving drugs but it’s all kinds of drugs.
Let me just say right from the outset I believe that these are absolutely right &#8211; these people are absolutely right when they say that this is a major problem.
Sen. Sanders and I have been investigating the skyrocketing prices of certain prescription drugs for a long time.
And during our investigation, we have been contacted by a huge range of people &#8211; patients, doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers &#8211; and they all warned about massive increases in the prices of certain medications.
As a matter of fact, it worries them greatly. We’ve had conferences with in my district with the University of Maryland and the distinguished Johns Hopkins Hospital and they complained of the same problems.
They’ve given us example after example of drug prices that have been jacked [up] with no apparent justification. Hello, no apparent justification and with no evident link to any increases in the cost of manufacturing these very important drugs.
Sen. Elijah Cummngs (D-Maryland): 
And if like Sen. Sanders said if somebody gets a prescription, gets the care then gets the prescription and then can’t afford it that’s a real problem. 
But the other piece that I think gnaws at me is that it seems to be a thing of greed here, and that bothers me a lot, particularly when people are dying and suffering needlessly. 
And so this is a cause which I think is so important and I think that’s why it ranks number one with the American people with regards to health care issues because again they can get the treatment a lot of times but they can’t get the cure. That’s a problem. 
Question: 
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont): 
They tell us how much money it costs to develop a drug, that ain’t necessarily the truth. They spend huge amounts of money to develop “me too” drugs &#8211; drugs which are already on the market. They make slight modifications. They make a whole lot of money off of that. 
We really want to know. It’s not good enough for them to tell us how much they spent. And by the way, the government spends money also on the development of these drugs. So we are going to find in fact what the truth of the matter is. 
But at the end of the day, there is no rational reason why in our country, our people are forced to pay prices for the same exact prescription drugs that are much, much higher not only in Canada but throughout Europe. That doesn’t make any sense at all. 
Question: 
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont): 
What we are now going to be doing is starting to put some resources into states beyond Iowa, beyond New Hampshire. States that will be coming up on Super Tuesday. 
And I could tell you is we’re feeling pretty good. 
Question: 
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont): 
The middle class in this country is disappearing. Almost all new income and wealth is going to the top 1%. 
All over America, people are working longer hours for lower wages. 
We have a campaign finance system as a result of Citizens United which is corrupt. 
Working families today could not afford to send their kids to college and they’re wondering why. 
They’re wondering why they’re working longer hours for lower wages and almost all of the new gains are going to the top 1%. 
Those are the issues that are resonating and I feel pretty good about that. 
###
