Because we’re not going to destroy our economy the way the left-wing government that we’re under now wants to do.
Well, I don’t &#8211; he may have lined up with their positions on this issue.
But here’s the bottom line. Every proposal they put forward are going to be proposals that will make it harder to do business in America, that will make it harder to create jobs in America.
Single parents are already struggling across this country to provide for their families.
Maybe a billionaire here in California can afford an increase in their utility rates. But a working family in Tampa, Florida or anywhere across this country cannot afford it.
So we are not going to destroy our economy. We are not going to make America a harder place to create jobs in order to pursue policies that will do absolutely nothing &#8211; nothing &#8211; to change our climate, to change our weather.
Because America is a lot of things &#8211; the greatest country in the world? Absolutely. But America is not a planet.
And we are not even the largest carbon producer anymore. China is. And they’re drilling a hole and digging anywhere in the world they can get ahold of.
So the bottom line is I am not in favor of any policies that make America a harder place for people to live, or to work, or to raise their families.
…You know, you can measure the climate. You can measure it. That’s not the issue we’re discussing.
Here’s what I’m skeptical of. I’m skeptical of the decision that the left wants us to make because I know the impacts those are going to have and they’re all going to be on our economy.
They will not do a thing to lower the rise of the sea. They will not do a thing to cure the drought here in California.
But what they will do is they will make America a more expensive place to create jobs, and today with millions of people watching this broadcast that are struggling paycheck to paycheck, that do not know how they’re going to pay their bills at the end of this month, I am not in favor of anything that is going to make it harder for them to raise their families.
