Part 1. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
…Thank you all for being here.
It has been quite a week, hasn’t it? 
No, I’m not talking about my face actually. But I am looking forward to that debate next week. 
Whenever I come to a setting like this, whenever I come back to New Hampshire &#8211; I was here over the Labor Day weekend, here again on such a beautiful early fall afternoon in a beautiful home, whenever I come to New Hampshire, I’m reminded of what America is all about. 
And I say that not to pander to you. I say that because this is a place &#8211; you are people &#8211; who take the words citizen government seriously. 
You know what a citizen government is. It means that as citizens you have to participate in politics in a serious way and participate as well in government and governance in a serious way. And I think that’s inspiring. 
Now, sometimes, I must tell you it can be a little frustrating wouldn’t be the right word but you know I’ve learned that all of you say “Well, I’ve got to see you three times &#8211; at least three times &#8211; before I’m going to make up my mind”, “Well, you’re on my top 5, top 3.” 
That’s good, and I know a lot of you are supporters and some of you may not yet have made up your mind but in your heart of hearts wherever you are you all know you want to see me debate Hillary Clinton. 
Part 2. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
I’m running for the presidency of the United States because I think our nation has reached a pivotal point and I think the American people know it. 
If you look at recent polling data, what you’d find is that 75% &#8211; 75% of the American people now think our federal government is corrupt. 
Gallup has been asking that question for two decades and it’s the highest number they’ve ever seen. 
And 82% of the American people now think we have a professional political class that is so concerned over of its power, position, and privilege that they are not focused on getting the people’s work done. I agree with them. 
I am keenly aware having traveled and lived and worked all over the world &#8211; I am keenly aware that it is only in the United States of America that a young woman can start out typing, filing, and answering the phones for a nine-person real estate firm in the middle of a deep recession go on eventually to become the chief executive of what we turned into the largest technology company in the world and run for the presidency of the United States. 
That is only possible in this nation. 
And it’s possible here because our founders knew something that my mother taught me many, many years ago and that I have learned over and over throughout my life. 
My mother taught me when I was about 8-years-old what you are is God’s gift to you, what you make of yourself is your gift to God. 
And I have learned over and over that everyone has God-given gifts. Everyone has potential usually far more than they realize. 
And so it is worth asking why have more things been more possible for more people here than anywhere else on the planet if everyone has God-given gifts. 
It’s because the founders knew what my mother taught me. They knew that everyone has potential. They knew that everyone has God-given gifts. And so they built a nation on a visionary idea. 
And the idea was this that here in this nation that you have a right &#8211; a right &#8211; to find and use your God-given gifts to fulfill your potential. They spoke about that as life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. 
But what they meant was you have a right to fulfill your potential and here is the radical part. The radical part of that idea was the right comes from God and cannot be taken away by man or government. 
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have come to a pivotal point in our nation’s history where the potentials of too many Americans &#8211; indeed the potential of this nation &#8211; is being crushed by the weight, the power, the cost, the complexity, the ineptitude, and the corruption of a federal government and a political class that is either unwilling or unable to do anything about it. 
Whatever your issue, whatever your cause, whatever festering problem you hope would be resolved by now, the professional political class has failed us. 
Ask yourself what is the issue you care most about &#8211; is it debts and deficits? The government has been getting bigger every single year for 50 years under Republicans and Democrats alike. 
Is it tax reform? Our tax code is now 73,000 pages long. 
How often in how many presidential elections do you hear candidates talking about a great idea for tax reform? How often have we been hearing in the last six years there is bipartisan appetite for tax reform and yet it never happens? 73,000 pages long. 
The regulatory thicket becomes more and more impenetrable. 
We talk about reforming education but whether it’s No Child Left Behind, Race to the Top, Common Core, they’ve all turned into &#8211; however they’re intended &#8211; they have all turned into big bureaucratic programs out of Washington, D.C. and the quality of our education continues to deteriorate. 
Do you care about veterans? I certainly do. 
And remember 18 months ago when the scandal of the Arizona wait times at the VA burst? And we learned that veterans had died waiting for appointments and the American people were so outraged they put pressure on the political system and politicians stood up and passed in record time a bipartisan bill that said you could fire 400 senior executives in the VA for failing to do their jobs? Well, guess what? Here we are 18 months later two people had been fired and we just learned last month in an Inspector General report that 307,000 veterans have died in the last year waiting for health care. 
This is a stain on our nation’s honor. It is ineptitude and it is a federal government that no longer serves the people who pay for it or who have served this nation. 
Part 3. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
I know a lot of us worked really hard &#8211; really hard &#8211; to restore historic Republican majorities to the House, to return a majority to the U.S. Senate and yet still there is no bill that protects a pain-capable unborn child, pass that bill. Planned Parenthood remains funded. 
It reminds me of the difference between managers and leaders. 
Managers are people who do the best they can within the status quo. Managers are people who operate within the system. Managers are people who tinker around the edges of a problem; they do what they got to get through the next day but they don’t ever really solve the problem and they don’t really ever challenge the status quo. 
We have a lot of managers in business, a lot of managers in life, and a lot of managers in politics. 
Leaders do not accept what has been broken just because it’s been that way for a very long time. 
How do you go from Secretary to CEO? I’ll tell you. You challenge the status quo every single day. You solve problems. You produce results. And you lead. Because fundamentally, a leader challenges the status quo. 
It reminds me of something one of my great heroes, Margaret Thatcher, said. Margaret Thatcher addressed her countrymen and women at a pivotal point in that nation’s history and she said “I am not content to manage the decline of a great nation.” 
Ladies and gentlemen, neither am I. But I am prepared to lead the resurgence of a great nation. 
And so here is what a leader &#8211; here is what this leader will do in the Oval Office: We must get this economy going and growing again and that means that we must recognize that crony capitalism is alive and well in Washington, D.C. and it has gotten worse under Republicans and Democrats alike. 
Why? Because when you have a 73,000 page tax code, when you have an impenetrable regulatory thicket, when you have law after law being passed &#8211; Dodd-Frank &#8211; what happens? We see it in the data. The big, the powerful, the wealthy, the well-connected get bigger, more powerful, wealthier, and better connected. And you know why? Because only they can afford to hire the accountants, the lawyers, the lobbyists to figure out how to make that work for them. 
As the chief executive of a $90 billion firm, if I didn’t like something, I could at least go hire an accountant, a lawyer, and a lobbyist. But that nine-person real estate firm I started out in? They can’t. 
So guess what’s happening? The big are getting bigger and the small are getting crushed. 
Dodd-Frank? What’s the consequence of Dodd-Frank? As but one example, we didn’t fix anything. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are still going strong. But 10 Wall Street banks too big to fail have become five even bigger Wall Street banks &#8211; better connected &#8211; and thousands of community banks are going out of business. 
You see, to get the economy going and growing again, we have to recognize where economic growth and job creation actually come from. It’s the nine-person real estate firm. It’s the family-owned auto body shop that my husband Frank started out in driving a tow truck. 
In other words, it’s the small business, the new business, the family-owned business, the community based businesses. Those businesses create two-thirds of the new jobs. They employ half of the people and we are crushing them. 
That is not hyperbole. For the first time in U.S. history, we are destroying more businesses than we are creating. 
We are tangling people’s lives up in webs of dependence. We don’t ask them to move forward in their lives. We encourage them to fall back, quit working, settle in.
We ignore their God-given gifts. 
We have to cut this government down to size and hold it accountable. 
And that means, ladies and gentlemen, we’ve got to know where our money is being spent. We need to go to some version of zero-based budgeting so we actually know where your money is being spent. 
There have to be consequences for non-performance. 
For heaven sakes, you have 307,000 veterans died waiting for health care, heads better roll in Washington, D.C. 
We have 256,000 baby boomers getting ready to retire from the federal government over the next four to five years. President Fiorina will not replace a single one. 
Part 4. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
And last and certainly not least, we must restore American leadership in the world because the world is a very dangerous and tragic place when America is not leading. 
On day one in the Oval Office, I will make two phone calls. 
The first will be to my good friend, Bibi Netanyahu, a man I’ve known for a long time. And I will say to the Prime Minister of Israel that the United States of America will always stand with the state of Israel. 
And the second phone call will be to the Supreme Leader of Iran. He might not take my phone call. He will get the message, and the message is this: New deal. 
I don’t care what deal you signed with President Obama and John Kerry. New deal. 
Until and unless you open every nuclear facility, every military facility to real anytime, anywhere inspections by our people not yours, we the United States of America will make it as difficult as possible for you to move money around the global financial system. We can do it. We don’t need anyone’s permission or collaboration to do it. 
And I will do it because we must cut off the money flow. 
And with those two phone calls, a message will go around the world loud and clear. The United States of America is back in the leadership business. 
Ladies and gentlemen, at this pivotal point in our nation’s history, we need a conservative who can win this job. We have to win. 
This nation cannot take four more years of Hillary Clinton, Joe Biden, John Kerry, whoever else they’re roll out because we know what four more years of anyone of them will mean. 
But to win this job is going to require a nominee who is a fearless fighter. And I promise you that I will wage this fight every single day. 
And that is what it is &#8211; it is a fight for the future of this nation. 
I will not be afraid to throw a punch and you know I can take a punch. I will not falter in this fight. 
But we also need somebody who can do this job. 
I am asking for your vote and for your support because I am the best qualified candidate to win this job and to do this job. 
So think for a moment what it takes to do this job of the President of the United States in 2017. 
I believe it takes a leader who understands how the economy actually works and how you grow an economy and who it is who creates jobs. 
She must understands how the world works and who is in it. I know more world leaders on the stage today than anyone running with the possible exception of Hillary Clinton only I didn’t do photo ops; I did business and charity and policy work. 
She needs to understand bureaucracies. How to cut them down to size and hold them accountable because this bureaucracy in Washington D.C. no longer serves the people who pay for it. 
She must understand technology. It is a powerful tool. It is also a weapon being used against us. 
And no, Mrs. Clinton, you do not wipe a server with a towel. And the Secret Service agents didn’t prevent the Chinese from hacking into that server. 
But finally and perhaps most importantly of all, we need a President of the United States who understands what leadership is. 
Leadership is not about position. It is not about title. It is not about how big your office is, how big your airplane is, how big your helicopter is, how big your ego is. 
Leadership is about service. The highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others. 
And now we need a leader in the White House who knows their highest calling is to unlock the potential of this great nation. 
Thank you so very much ladies and gentlemen. 
Part 5. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
Question on taxes: 
Carly Fiorinia: 
Look, there’s only one way to reduce debts and deficits and we know what it is. 
There’s only a couple of things you can do: Reduce spending, grow the economy. Reduce spending, grow the economy. Growing the economy grows revenues, reduce spending cuts down on the expenses. Right? We all know this. 
The good news is if we cut spending in the right way, we help grow the economy. 
So let’s just use a simple example. I talked about the 73,000 page tax code. Now, you’re going to hear a lot of tax plans from a lot of politicians. That’s what happens. Every political season we talk about the same issues over and over again. 
We talk about Social Security reforms. Never happens. We talk about tax reforms. Never happens. We talk about immigration every election cycle and guess how long the border’s been insecure? 25 years. Guess how long San Francisco’s been a sanctuary city? 1989. 
So why do I talk about tax reform? 73,000 pages. All that complexity I think it needs to be about three. 
Why three? Because if the tax code is three pages, anyone can understand it. You don’t need an accountant to tell you how to fill out your tax returns and the reason simplicity, comprehensibility is so important is because when something is too complicated for you to understand it, you’re getting taken advantage of. You know that in your bones. 
When something is so complicated, you need all these people to figure it out and that’s what’s happened. 
A 73,000 page tax code advantages big business and big interest groups and wealthy well-connected people. 
A three page tax code levels the playing field. 
But it also to your point of debts and deficits, if you have three page tax code, you’d need a whole lot less people at the IRS. Right? You’d need a whole lot less people at the IRS. 
Here’s another example. If you decide &#8211; if you actually decide to look at the facts and say “Wow, you know the Department of Education has gotten bigger and bigger and bigger every year for 40 years.” The Department of Education takes more and more money and guess what’s happening at the same time? The quality of education continues to deteriorate. 
So what does that tell us? It tells us that the amount of money spent in Washington on education has nothing to do with the quality of education. 
In fact, it might be an inverse relationship. 
So, let’s quit spending money in Washington and focus on the things that we know are important to a child’s education. A good teacher in the front of the classroom and the ability of a parent to have a choice &#8211; a real choice &#8211; so their kids have a chance. 
That not only helps us prepare our children but it causes us to spend less in Washington, D.C. 
And to actually cut down the size of government, we’ve got to quit talking about revenue neutral tax reform. No, we need revenue reducing tax reform. 
The only way you start holding bureaucracies accountable is you give them less money, not more, and then you are rigorous in terms of how money is spent. 
Every single year, Congress gets a report from a retiring Senator named Tom Coburn…And Tom Coburn delivers a report to Congress and it lands like a thud on everybody’s desk and it outlines tens upon tens &#8211; hundreds of billions of dollars of fraud, waste, abuse, corruption in the federal government. And guess what happens? Nothing. Nothing. 
This is why a professional politician cannot serve in the Oval Office. Because to do something with that requires with the courage and the experience to challenge the status quo. 
So we know what to do. It’s just we never seem to get it done. Together, we will get it done. 
Part 6. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
Question on how Fiorina is going to manage the long-term festering problems like the budget and regulations:  
Carly Fiorinia:
Which is why in the first month I will hold a Camp David summit with our Arab allies who are fighting on the ground as we speak against ISIS and ask them what they need from us. 
You know, our Arab allies &#8211; all of whom I know &#8211; the Jordanians have been asking us for bombs and materials. They’re fighting ISIS on the ground as we speak. King Abdullah of Jordan &#8211; a good man &#8211; I’ve known him 15 years. We haven’t provided that to him. So now, he’s going to the Chinese. I will. 
The Egyptians have asked us to share intelligence. The Kurds have asked us to arm them for three years. 
The point is we have allies who are willing to do their part but not unless they see leadership and support and resolve from us. 
So yes, you are correct. There are crises that must be dealt with. 
Here’s another set of crises that have to be dealt with. It’s a slow creeping thing but it’s a crisis. 
This President has rolled out a set of executive orders and regulations that are crushing, whether it’s the EPA regulations that now controls 95% of the groundwater or whether it’s the EPA regulations that are destroying the energy industry &#8211; coal, for example &#8211; or whether it’s the 400 plus pages of regulation that the FCC rolled out over the Internet. Boy, that’s going to help the economy. All of that stuff &#8211; that National Labor Relations Board on a strictly partisan vote just totally changed the rules for franchisees just because they want an opportunity for unions to unionize. 
This is about a political agenda. But it’s not good for economic growth. 
So a whole set of things that the President just rolled out are going to have to be rolled back. 
It is always a leader’s job, however, to understand how to balance the short with the long-term. 
You know, someone many years ago asked me to define leadership and of course I said the highest calling of leadership is to unlock potential in others. But I also said this: Balance is the art of leadership. A leader has to balance many things short-term and long-term, urgent crises and crises that you see over the horizon. Confidence in what is possible and humility in what you cannot do alone. 
A set of things that we need to begin immediately but that will not take hold immediately are tools to cut the government down to size. 
And in this regard, I will ask for the citizens of this nation’s help. 
I started out in my remarks by saying that I admire how seriously you take a citizen government. And I believe we have to return to a citizen government. 
It is a dangerous thing when 80% of the American people think that they just don’t count anymore. It is a dangerous thing for a citizen government with 75% of the people think their government is corrupt and inept. And that means as Democrats, Republicans, and Independents &#8211; so why do I say that? 
I mentioned that I believe we have to go to zero based budgeting. Some version &#8211; many states do this &#8211; some version where we know where our money is being spent because it’s only when you can see the money in appropriations every year &#8211; by the way, we don’t talk about the whole budget. We talk about the rate of increase over last year’s budget. That’s how the budget gets bigger and bigger and bigger for 50 years. 
Nobody ever goes back and has to justify a program. Ever. 
Zero based budgeting would essentially say you’ve got to justify every dollar of every program every single year period.
To get that done requires Congress to act. To get Congress to act is going to require a partnership between leaders and citizens. 
So here’s what I’m going to ask you to do as citizens. As the leader, the President of the United States, I will go into the Oval Office on a regular basis. I will ask you to take out your smartphones. If you still own a flip phone, you have 18 months to upgrade. Very important. Very important. I see a lot of flip phones here. Very important. You need to upgrade to a smartphone because what I’m going to ask you is this: Do you think it’s important that we know where your money is being spent and that Congress move to some form of zero based budgeting? Press one for yes on your keypad. Press two for no. 
This technology exists. It is a tool to re-engage citizens in the process of your government. I know how you’re going to vote. 
The reason it’s important is because it’s one thing to just get people fired up and angry and frustrated and I know that people are angry and frustrated. But a leader channels that anger, that frustration, and most importantly the common sense and judgement of the American people and focuses that pressure on Congress. 
Because what we know is politicians respond to pressure. It’s how the bill got passed that 400 senior executives could get fired. Pressure. 
So I am going to use your common sense and good judgment to put pressure. 
And when the majority of American people press one for yes, Congress will act, and that’s how you get the machinery going. And that needs to be started immediately although it will not be finished immediately. 
Part 7. Partial transcript of Republican presidential candidate Carly Fiorina’s remarks at the Stretch Kennedy Annual Picnic in Chichester, New Hampshire on Sept. 12, 2015:
Questions on Donald Trump and who will decide what Fiorina’s husband will wear: 
Carly Fiorinia:
You know, I have to digress for one moment. So many people have come up to me and so chivalrous and gallant, and women will come up to me and say “Don’t worry about what he said about your face. I love your face.” Honestly, does anyone think I care what Donald Trump thinks of my face? 
My husband has never really taken my advice on what to wear and I really don’t think he’s going to start now. 
His moment of greatest pride and if he were standing right here he would tell you this is when he comes home from Costco and he says “Look at this shirt I bought. It was only $9!”
My husband is a good Italian from Pittsburgh and he’s a man’s man and no his wife doesn’t tell him what to wear. 
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you again so much for your support and for being here. 
I want to close by asking you think about what this nation can be, what this nation must be, what this nation I believe will be. 
I think about that everyday. 
In my mind, I picture two of the most powerful symbols of our nation’s democracy. Lady Liberty and Lady Justice. Because I think they tell us all we need to know about the future of our beautiful nation. 
Picture Lady Liberty. She stands tall and strong as America must always be. She is clear-eyed and resolute. She doesn’t shield her eyes from the realities of the world. But she faces outward into the world nevertheless as America must always face. And she holds her torch high because she know she is a beacon of hope in a very troubled and dangerous world. 
And Lady Justice. Lady Justice holds a sword by her side because she is a fighter, a warrior for the values and the principles that have made this nation great. She holds a scale in the other hand, and with that scale she reminds us that all of us are equal in the eyes of God and so all of us must be equal in the eyes of the law and government powerful and powerless alike. And she wears a blindfold, and I think with that blindfold, she is saying that it must be true, that it can be true that in this nation, in this century, it does not matter what you look like, it does not matter who you are, it does not matter how you start, it does not matter your circumstances. Here in this nation, every American’s life must be filled with possibility that come from their God-given gifts. One nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. 
Thank you. God bless you, ladies and gentlemen. 
###
