Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on wages at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
Well, I’ve been talking to a lot of these families and this is such an outrage both because it’s bad for our economy. We’re a 70% consumption economy. People need to feel optimistic and confident. They need to believe that their hard work is going to be rewarded. And it’s bad for our democracy. 
It’s absolutely the case that if people feel that the game is rigged, that has consequences. 
I think it’s great standing up here with the senator and the governor talking about these issues because you’re not going to hear anything like this from any of the Republicans who are running for president. They don’t want to raise the minimum wage. They don’t want to do anything to increase incomes. 
At the center of my economic policy is raising incomes because people haven’t been able to get ahead and the cost of everything from college tuition to prescription drugs has gone up. 
Of course, we have to raise the minimum wage. Of course, we have to do more to incentivize profit-sharing like we see with Market Basket right here in New Hampshire and New England. All of the employees get a chance to share in the profits. 
And we’ve got to do more on equal pay for equal work. That means pass the Paycheck Fairness Act so we have transparency about how much people are making. That’s the way to get women’s wages up and that’s good for them and good for their families and good for our communities. 
And there is a lot we can do in college affordability. I have debt free tuition plans, free community college plans, getting student debt down. 
I also am very committed to getting the price of drugs down and there’s a lot. You can go to my website HillaryClinton.com and read about it. 
But I guess the final thing that I would say is this is the kind of debate we need to take to the Republicans in the fall. This is the election they have to respond to. 
Moderator: 
Hillary Clinton: 
Look, I have said I want to be the president for the struggling, the striving, and the successful. I want to make sure the wealthy pay their fair share, which they have not been doing. 
I want the Buffett rule to be in effect where millionaires have to pay 30% tax rates instead of 10% to nothing in some cases. 
I want to make sure we rein in the excessive use of political power to feather the nest and support the super wealthy. 
But I also want to create jobs and I want to be a partner with the private sector. I’m particularly keen on creating jobs in small business. 
My dad was a small businessman. A really small business. I want to do more to help incentivize and create more small businesses. 
So if people who are in the private sector know what I stand for. It’s what I fought for as a Senator. It’s what I will do as president. And they want to be part of, once again, building our economy so it works for everybody more power to them because they are the kind of business leaders who understand that if we don’t get the American economy moving and growing, we’re not going to recognize our country and we’re not going to give our kids the same opportunities that we had. 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
