Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on sending ground troops to fight ISIS at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
No, not at all. I think what we’re facing with ISIS is especially complicated. 
It was a different situation in Afghanistan. We were attacked from Afghanistan. Al Qaeda was based in Afghanistan. We went after those who had attacked us. 
What’s happening in Syria and in Iraq is that because of the failures in the region, including the failure of the prior government in Baghdad led by Maliki, there has been a resurgence of Sunni activities as exemplified by ISIS. 
And we have to support Sunni Arab and Kurdish forces against ISIS because I believe it would be not only a strategic mistake for the United States to put ground combat troops in as opposed to special operators, as opposed to trainers, because that is exactly what ISIS wants. 
They’ve advertised that. They want American troops back in the Middle East. They want American soldiers on the ground fighting them, giving them many more targets and giving them a great recruiting opportunity. 
So I think it’s absolutely the wrong policy for us to even imagining that we’re going to end up putting tens of thousands of American troops into Syria and Iraq to fight ISIS. 
And we do have to form a coalition. I know how hard that is. I have formed them. I’ve put together coalitions including Arabs with respect to Libya and a coalition to put sanctions onto Iran. And you have to really work hard at it. 
And the final thing I would say bringing Donald Trump into it, if you’re going to put together a coalition in the region to take on the threat of ISIS, you don’t want to alienate the very countries and people you need to be part of the coalition. And so that is part of the reason why this is so difficult. 
Well, I just think you’re asking a question with a false choice. I believe if we lead an air coalition, which we are now in a position of doing, and intensify it, if we continue to build back up the Iraqi army, which has had some recent success in Ramadi, as you know, if we get back talking to the tribal sheikhs in Anbar to try to rebuild those relationships, which were very successful in going after Al Qaeda in Iraq, if we get the Turks to pay more attention to ISIS than they’re paying to the Kurds, if we do put together the kind of coalition with the specific tasks that I am outlining, I think we can be successful in destroying ISIS. So that’s what I’m focused on. That’s what I’ve outlined, and that’s what I would do as president. 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
