Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on terrorism and gun control at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
Well, I think you have look at both the terrorism challenge that we face abroad and certainly at home and the role that guns play in delivering the violence that stalks us. 
Clearly, we have to have a very specific set of actions to take. 
You know, when Sen. Sanders talks about a coalition. I agree with him about that. We’ve got to build a coalition abroad. We also have to build a coalition at home. 
Abroad, we need a coalition that is going to take on ISIS. I know how hard that is. I know it isn’t something that you just hope people will do…
…I think if you only think about the coalition abroad, you’re missing the main point, which is we need a coalition here at home. 
Guns in an of themselves in my opinion will not make Americans safer. We lose 33,000 people a year already to gun violence. Arming more people to do what I think is not the appropriate response to terrorism. 
I think what is is creating much deeper, closer relations and, yes, coalitions within our own country. The first line of defense against radicalization is in the Muslim American community. People who we should be welcoming and working with. 
I worry greatly that the rhetoric coming the Republicans, particularly Donald Trump, is sending a message to Muslims here in the United States and literally around the world that there is a clash of civilizations, that there is some kind of western plot or even war against Islam, which then I believe fans the flames of radicalization. 
So, guns have to be looked at as its own problem but we also have to figure out how we’re going to deal with the radicalization here in the United States. 
&#8230;
&#8230;I actually agree with Gov. O&#8217;Malley about the need for common sense gun safety measures and I applaud his record in Maryland. I just wish he wouldn&#8217;t misrepresent mine. 
I have been for the Brady Bill. I have been against assault weapons. I have voted not to give gunmakers and sellers immunity. 
And I also know that &#8211; and I&#8217;m glad to see this &#8211; Sen. Sanders has really moved in face of the facts about what we&#8217;re confronting in our country. I know that he has said in the two previous debates that he wants to take on this immunity issue because we need to send a strong message to the gun manufacturers, to the sellers, to the gun lobby, and I would hope, Sen. Sanders, that you would join the Democrats who are trying to close the Charleston loophole that you would sponsor or co-sponsor legislation to remove the absolute immunity. 
We need to move on this consensus that exists in this country. It&#8217;s no longer enough just to say the vast majority of Americans want common sense gun safety measures, including gun owners. We need &#8211; and only the three of us will do this &#8211; nobody on the Republican side will even admit there&#8217;s a problem.
And in whatever way the three of us can, we need to move this agenda forward and begin to deal with the gun lobby and the intimidation that they result. 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
