Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on Libya at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
Well, first, let’s remember why we became part of a coalition to stop Gaddafi from committing massacres against his people. 
The United States was asked to support the European and the Arab partners that we had and we did a lot of due diligence about whether we should or not. 
And eventually, yes, I recommended and the president decided that we would support the action to protect civilians on the ground and that led to the overthrow of Gaddafi. 
I think that what Libya then did by having a full free election, which elected moderates was an indication of their crying need and desire to get on the right path. 
Now, the whole region has been rendered unstable in part because of the aftermath of the Arab Spring, in part because of the very effective outreach and propagandizing that ISIS and other terrorist groups do. 
But what we’re seeing happening in Libya right now is that there has been a fragile agreement to put aside differences that exist among Libyans themselves to try to dislodge ISIS from Sirte, the hometown of Gaddafi, and to begin to try to create a national government. 
You know, this is not easy work. We did a lot to help. We did as much as we could because the Libyans themselves had very strong feelings about what they wished to accept. 
But we’re always looking for ways about what more we can do to try to give people a chance to be successful. 
…We offered a lot more than they were willing to take. We offered a lot more. 
We also got rid of their chemical weapons, which was a big help. 
And we also went after a lot of the shoulder-fired missiles to round them up. 
You know, we can’t &#8211; if we’re not going to send American troops, which there was never any idea of doing that, then to try to send trainers, to try to send experts is something we offered, the Europeans offered, the U.N. offered, and there wasn’t a lot of responsiveness at first. 
I think a lot of the Libyans who had been forced out of their country by Gaddafi who came back to try to be part of a new government believed they knew what to do and it turned out they were no match for some of the, you know, militaristic forces inside that country. 
But I’m not giving up on Libya and I don’t think anybody should. We’ve been at this for a couple of years. 
Moderator: 
Hillary Clinton: 
What we could have done if they had said yes would have been a lot more than we were able to have done. 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
