Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on college affordability at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
Well, I have what I call the New College Compact because I think everybody has to have some skin in this game. 
Number one, states have been disinvesting in higher education. 
In fact, I think New Hampshire in-state tuition for public college and university is among the highest if not the highest in the country. 
So, states over a period of decades have put their money elsewhere &#8211; into prisons, into highways, into things other than higher education. 
So under my compact, the federal government will match money that the states begin to put back in to the higher education system. 
Secondly, I don’t believe in free tuition for everybody. I believe we should focus on middle class families, working families and poor kids who have the ambition and the talent to go to college and get ahead. 
So I have proposed debt free tuition, which I think is affordable, and I would move a lot of the Pell Grants and other aid into the arena where it could be used for living expenses. 
So I’ve put all this together again on my website and am pleased that I’ve gotten such a good response. 
But I want to quickly say that one of the areas that Sen. Sanders touched on in talking about education and certainly talking about health care is his commitment to really changing the system &#8211; free college, single payer system for health care, and it’s been estimated we’re looking at $18 trillion to $20 trillion &#8211; about a 40% increase in the federal budget. 
And I have looked at his proposed plans for health care for example and it really does transfer every bit of our health care system including private health care to the states to have the states run. 
And I think we’ve got to be really thoughtful about how we’re going to afford what we proposed, which is why everything that I have proposed I will tell you exactly how I’m going to pay for it, including college. 
Bernie Sanders:
Hillary Clinton:
Bernie Sanders: 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
