Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on Obamacare at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
Well, I would certainly build on the successes of the Affordable Care Act and work to fix some of the glitches that you just referenced. 
Number one, we do have more people who have access to health care. 
We have ended the terrible situation that people with pre-existing conditions were faced where they couldn’t find at any affordable price health care. 
Women are not charged more than men anymore for our health insurance. 
And we keep young people on our policies until they turn 26. 
Those are all really positive developments. But out of pocket costs have gone up too much and prescription drug costs have gone through the roof. 
And so what I have proposed is number one, a $5,000 tax credit to help people who have very large out of pocket costs be able to afford those. 
Number two, I want Medicare to be able to negotiate for lower drug prices just like they negotiate with other countries’ health systems. We end up paying the highest prices in the world. 
And I want us to be absolutely clear about making sure the insurance companies and the private employer policy arena as well as in the Affordable Care exchanges are properly regulated so that we are not being gamed. 
And I think that’s an important point to make because I’m going through and analyzing the points you are making…we don’t have enough competition, and we don’t have enough oversight of what the insurance companies are charging everybody right now. 
Well, they’re glitches because…it is because part of this is the start up challenges that this system is facing. 
We have fought as Democrats for decades to get a health care plan. I know. I’ve got the scars to show from the effort back in the early ‘90s. 
We want to build on it and fix it and I am confident we can do that. 
And it will have effects in the private market and one of the reasons in some states why the percentage cost has gone up so much is because governors there would not extend Medicaid, and so people are still going to get health care &#8211; thankfully &#8211; in emergency rooms, in hospitals. Those costs are then added to the overall costs, which does increase the insurance premiums for people in the private insurance…
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
