Partial transcript of Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton’s remarks on Wall Street at the ABC News Debate in Manchester, New Hampshire on Dec. 19, 2015: 
Number one, there are currently two hedge fund billionaires running ads against me here in New Hampshire. They started in Iowa. 
Now, you’d have to ask yourself, “Why are they running ads against me?” And the answer is they know I will go right after them, that I will not let their agenda be America’s agenda. 
Secondly, I think it’s important to point out that about 3% of my donations come from people in the finance and investment world. You can go to OpenSecrets.org and check that. 
I have more donations from students and teachers than I do from people associated with Wall Street. 
Now, number three, and let me say this, when Gov. O’Malley was heading the Democratic Governors Association, he had no trouble at all going to Wall Street to raise money to run campaigns for Democratic governors. 
And he also had no trouble appointing an investment banker to be in charge of his consumer protection bureau when he was governor. 
So, you know, again, the difference between us and the Republicans is night and day, and there is only one person on this stage who voted to take away authority from the SEC and the Commodities Future Trading Commission that they could no longer regulate what are called swaps and derivatives which actually contributed to the collapse of the Lehman Brothers and that was Sen. Sanders. 
So if we’re going to be talking like this, we can and maybe we can score some political points, but the fact is every one of us stands for the kind of economy that will work better for every American. 
And if that means taking on Wall Street, I have a plan that is tough and comprehensive and praised by a lot of folks who say it goes further than what both Sen. Sanders and Gov. O’Malley are proposing. 
Bernie Sanders: 
But most importantly, when you look at what happened in the 1990s, go to BernieSanders.com &#8211; I’ll advertise my website as well &#8211; and what you’ll find is that I led the effort as a member of the House Financial Committee against Alan Greenspan…against the Republican leadership who all thought it would be a great idea to merge investor banks and commercial banks and large insurance companies. What a brilliant idea that would be. 
Go to YouTube, find out what I said to Greenspan. 
At the end of the day, if Teddy Roosevelt were alive today &#8211; and the governor makes a good point about anti-trade, antimonopoly activities &#8211; Wall Street today has too much political power. It has too much economic power. To get de-regulated, listen to this, they spent $5 billion in lobbying and campaign contributions over a 10-year period. 
Wall Street is a threat to the economy. They’ve got to be broken up. 
Spotlight: ABC News Democratic presidential debate
